June 2023

Effects Analysis
IFRS ® Sustainability Disclosure Standards
IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information
IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures

This Effects Analysis accompanies, but is not part of, IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and
IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures.
What is the purpose of this Effects Analysis?
This Effects Analysis describes the likely benefits and costs of IFRS S1 and IFRS S2. The benefits and costs are collectively referred to as ‘effects’. The International
Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB) gains insight into the likely effects of new IFRS Sustainability Disclosure Standards through its exposure of proposals to
stakeholders and through its analysis and consultation with them. This document describes the ISSB’s considerations of the effects of IFRS S1 and IFRS S2.
Background
The ISSB was created to develop standards that will establish a comprehensive global baseline of sustainability-related financial disclosures for capital markets.
IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 are the first two IFRS Sustainability Disclosure Standards developed by the ISSB.
Jurisdictional authorities decide whether to require companies to apply IFRS Sustainability Disclosure Standards, which are designed to work with any accounting
standards used to prepare financial statements, including IFRS Accounting Standards.1
The ISSB does not have the right to mandate the application of IFRS Sustainability Disclosure Standards. Companies can choose to apply them.
Glossary
Many terms used in this document are specific to sustainability-related matters. See the Glossary on page 69 for definitions of those terms.

1

In this document, the term ‘company’ refers to an entity that provides sustainability-related financial disclosures. In this document, companies and preparers are used interchangeably.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 2

Executive summary
The International Sustainability Standards Board
(ISSB) aims to develop standards that will provide
a comprehensive global baseline of high-quality
sustainability-related financial disclosures to meet
the information needs of users of general purpose
financial reports (primary users).2 These standards,
which are referred to as IFRS Sustainability
Disclosure Standards, set out requirements for
disclosures about a company’s sustainability-related
governance, strategy, risk management and metrics
and targets. IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 are the first two
IFRS Sustainability Disclosure Standards developed
by the ISSB.
IFRS S1 and IFRS S2
IFRS S1 sets out overall disclosure requirements
for sustainability-related financial information.
IFRS S2 sets out disclosure requirements for
climate-related financial information.

Why has the ISSB developed
IFRS S1 and IFRS S2?

The ISSB expects companies that apply IFRS S1 and
IFRS S2 will benefit from using a global disclosure
baseline that:

The fragmented landscape of sustainability reporting
comprises both voluntary standards and growing
requirements, adding cost, complexity and risk for
companies and investors.

• improves interoperability among other sustainability
reporting frameworks, helping companies
streamline their sustainability reporting processes;
and

Investors find it difficult to obtain decision-useful,
reliable and comparable sustainability-related
information to assist them in understanding
sustainability-related risks and opportunities
when making investment decisions and
comparing companies.

• enables greater transparency of information,
resulting in improved access to capital, governance
and strategy for companies.
Importantly, this information is expected to help
investors make better investment decisions.

IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 are designed
to set a global baseline to enable
companies to provide information
about sustainability-related risks and
opportunities that is useful for investors’
decision-making.

2	Primary users are existing and potential investors, lenders and other creditors that use a company’s general purpose financial reports, which include sustainability-related financial disclosures, in making decisions relating
to providing resources to the company. Throughout this document the term ‘investors’ is used to describe these users.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 3

Evolution of corporate sustainability
disclosures

To reduce implementation costs for companies that
already report information using other frameworks or
standards, IFRS S1 and IFRS S2:

The ISSB considered voluntary and mandatory
sustainability-related disclosure practices and
requirements in its analysis of the effects of IFRS S1
and IFRS S2. These practices and requirements are
numerous and vary both in their content and in their
objectives (including their intended audience).

• incorporate the TCFD Recommendations; and

More than 300 mandatory reporting
schemes and more than 200 voluntary
reporting schemes are in use.3
The most common voluntary frameworks and
standards are the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
Standards, the Integrated Reporting Framework, the
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)
Standards and the recommendations of the Task
Force on Climate‑related Financial Disclosures (TCFD
Recommendations). Additionally, several jurisdictions
have proposed or adopted mandatory disclosure
requirements for sustainability-related information.

• build on materials from the Climate Disclosure
Standards Board (CDSB), the SASB, the
International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC)
and the International Accounting Standards
Board (IASB).

The SASB’s approach is valued by
investors for producing decision‑useful
information and by preparers for
producing cost-effective disclosures.
For this reason, the ISSB has embedded
the SASB’s industry-based approach
to sustainability disclosure into its
standard‑setting process.

Requirements in IFRS S1
IFRS S1 sets out requirements for disclosing material
sustainability-related financial information to provide
investors with a complete set of sustainability‑related
financial disclosures. The Standard sets out
requirements for the content of those disclosures,
including that a company provide information on the
sustainability-related risks and opportunities that
could reasonably be expected to affect the company’s
prospects.4 IFRS S1 also sets out how those
disclosures relate to a company’s financial statements,
including that the sustainability-related financial
disclosures be included as part of the general purpose
financial reports.
The ISSB developed IFRS S1 in response to calls
from investors and bodies (including the International
Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO),
the Financial Stability Board, the G20 and the G7)
for more consistent, complete, comparable and
verifiable sustainability-related financial information to
inform investors’ decisions about providing resources
to companies.

3	C. van der Lugt, P.P. van de Wijs and D. Petrovics, Carrots & Sticks: Sustainability Reporting Policy: Global Trends in Disclosure as the ESG Agenda Goes Mainstream, Amsterdam and Stellenbosch, Global Reporting Initiative
and the University of Stellenbosch Business School, 2020.
4	In this document, ‘sustainability-related risks and opportunities that could reasonably be expected to affect a company’s prospects’ refer to sustainability-related risks and opportunities that could reasonably be expected to
affect the company’s cash flows, its access to finance or cost of capital over the short, medium or long term.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 4

Requirements in IFRS S2

Objectives of this Effects Analysis

Second challenge

IFRS S2 sets out requirements for disclosing
material information about climate-related
matters. The Standard incorporates the TCFD
Recommendations and includes illustrative metrics
tailored to industry classifications derived from the
industry-based SASB Standards.

This Effects Analysis describes the likely benefits and
costs in relation to IFRS S1 and IFRS S2, including
those identified by stakeholders commenting on the
IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 exposure drafts, as well as
the nascent experiences of companies disclosing
information using various voluntary or mandatory
standards.5 In considering the responses to the
exposure drafts, the ISSB provided clarifications,
guidance, relief measures and modified time frames,
and took other measures to reduce the costs of
initially applying and continuing to apply IFRS S1 and
IFRS S2.

Any assessment of benefits and costs inherently faces
challenges in the identification of specific, quantitative
benefits and costs.

Assessing the effects of IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 is made
more challenging in two respects.

Benefits, on the other hand, develop over time and are
often more subtle and implicit.

First challenge

Especially for the disclosure of new sustainability‑related
information, the effects may need to be evaluated over
the longer term.

IFRS S2 sets out specific disclosure requirements
for climate-related risks and opportunities and
thus supplements the general requirements
in IFRS S1. In particular, when meeting the
requirements in IFRS S1 to provide information
about sustainability‑related risks and opportunities,
a company applies IFRS S2 to disclose information
about climate-related risks and opportunities
that could reasonably be expected to affect the
company’s prospects.
Climate change creates both risks and opportunities
for business: many companies and economic sectors
face physical risks from climate change and from the
transition to a lower-carbon economy. At the same
time, climate change and related economic changes
can create opportunities for companies.

IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 are the first efforts to create a
global baseline of sustainability disclosures. There is
no similar precedent that can be used to compare the
effects of these Standards.

Costs of applying disclosure standards tend to fall
largely on preparers in the form of direct costs.
These costs accrue both in the near term and over
time and are easier to attribute and observe than
benefits. Costs can also vary significantly between
companies and jurisdictions. These effects are
expected to be more pronounced in the case of
IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 because the preparedness of
companies and jurisdictions is highly variable.

Some costs and benefits might be interrelated.
For example, some costs might be the result of
investments in systems and processes that deliver
efficiency and other benefits.

5	Under its due process requirements, the ISSB will also assess the implementation of IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 periodically through its post-implementation review process. This review process will address some stakeholder
suggestions that the ISSB continuously evaluate and ensure interoperability with jurisdictional initiatives and other sustainability-related standards over time to minimise likely ongoing costs.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 5

Due to the lack of precedent and
quantitative challenges, this analysis
considers effects in a qualitative manner
at the level of aggregate preparers and
aggregate users of information.
Taking into consideration these factors and the
requirements in IFRS S1 and IFRS S2, this analysis
discusses likely benefits and costs for companies in
applying IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 relative to three broad
reporting starting points:
• no or minimal sustainability reporting (Case 1);
• voluntary sustainability reporting (Case 2); and
• mandatory sustainability reporting (Case 3).

Likely benefits
Although companies will incur costs related to the
implementation and ongoing application of IFRS S1
and IFRS S2, many respondents to the exposure
drafts, including most investors, indicated that the
benefits of implementing IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 are
likely to outweigh the costs.

Main benefits for investors
Investors are likely to benefit from the application of
IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 by avoiding costs, such as the
inefficiencies of manual data collection, management
and analysis of sustainability-related financial
disclosures. Many of these benefits for investors
stem from the greater consistency, comparability and
verifiability of disclosures when IFRS S1 and IFRS S2
are applied.
Main benefits for companies
Likely benefits for companies are related to improved
data quality, including higher quality of information
from companies that are in the value chain of a
reporting company. Improved data quality is expected
to have a positive effect on areas such as governance,
strategy, access to capital, cost of capital, reputation,
and employee and stakeholder engagement. Applying
IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 might also help companies
streamline their sustainability reporting processes for
meeting the needs of investors. These benefits are
largely confirmed by academic and market research
and by the voluntary standard-setters whose materials
form the foundation of the Standards.

Respondents to the exposure drafts suggested, for
example, that using IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 would:
• reduce fragmented disclosure requirements and
complexity for preparers and investors;
• encourage companies with less mature disclosure
practices to improve, enhancing the information
available to capital markets;
• promote transparent capital markets that better
reflect the cost of risk and support transition and
adaptation efforts; and
• improve companies’ monitoring of
sustainability‑related risks and opportunities,
enabling more informed internal decision-making,
providing a framework for strategic review of the
business model and supporting better performance
and longer-term value creation.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 6

The improved identification and mitigation of risks, as
well as the timely grasping of opportunities, especially
climate-related, that arise beyond the company and
across its value chain, are expected to enhance
business resilience and prospects.

Likely costs

The ISSB also found that many companies are
already disclosing sustainability-related information to
investors, applying voluntary disclosure frameworks,
which implies that those companies perceive a benefit
to such disclosures.

Investors might face costs to establish or
modify internal systems, data collection or data
analysis processes.

Other benefits

Depending on their starting point, companies might
face costs relating to:

Benefits are also likely to include improved market
transparency, improved risk-adjusted cost of capital
and reduced difficulties in processing sustainability
information, which can reduce investor disagreements
and investment uncertainties. Improved transparency
about sustainability-related risks is also expected to
contribute to long-term financial stability by revealing
useful information that will enable more informed
decision-making and better management of such risks.

The likely costs of applying IFRS S1 and IFRS S2
could arise in several forms.
Main costs for investors

Main costs for companies

Almost all preparers who commented on the IFRS S1
and IFRS S2 exposure drafts said that the costs
of initially applying the proposals were likely to be
substantial, citing the one-time costs of developing
and implementing systems for reporting and internal
controls on data, and personnel costs to source the
appropriate talent to manage data collection and
disclosure processes. These costs might be new for
many first-time preparers of sustainability-related
financial disclosures. However, many respondents to
the exposure drafts said that ongoing costs were likely
to decrease over time, as preparers set up systems
and become familiar with the disclosure requirements.

• recruiting additional staff or acquiring necessary
expertise;
• changing data collection and analysis;
• establishing or modifying internal systems; and
• producing or modifying production of reported
information.6

6	Costs relating to producing information might include costs to obtain assurance for reported information.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 7

Efforts to mitigate costs
The ISSB has introduced several measures
that mitigate the overall costs of disclosing
sustainability‑related information applying IFRS S1
and IFRS S2.

1

Building on well-established
frameworks and standards

IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 incorporate and build upon the
core elements of widely used sustainability frameworks
and standards, thus reducing the implementation costs
and learning curve for the several thousand companies
already applying those frameworks and standards.
For example, IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 incorporate the
TCFD Recommendations.
The ISSB has used pre-existing terminology and
concepts, including the concept from IFRS Accounting
Standards requiring a company, in specific cases,
to use only information that is reasonable and
supportable and is available without undue cost
or effort.

2

Interoperability with jurisdictional
requirements

The ISSB has worked to improve the interoperability of
IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 with the European Sustainability
Reporting Standards (ESRS) and other major
jurisdictional requirements, and plans to work to
improve the interoperability of IFRS S1 and IFRS S2
with the GRI Standards, to reduce reporting burdens.
For example, efforts have been made to ensure that
common climate disclosures in IFRS S2 and ESRS are
aligned to reduce the burden for companies to produce
several disclosures on similar topics. Furthermore, in
the absence of specific disclosure requirements in an
IFRS Sustainability Disclosure Standard, a company
is permitted to use disclosures set out in ESRS and
GRI Standards to the extent they meet investors’
information needs and the objectives in IFRS S1.

3

Guidance and illustrative examples

The ISSB has clarified requirements in IFRS S1
and IFRS S2 to assist companies with applying the
Standards, in response to comments received on the
exposure drafts.
The ISSB has provided illustrative examples and
application guidance for several areas of IFRS S1 and
IFRS S2, including:
• guidance to help a company assess its resilience to
climate change and use of scenario analysis in the
context of the company’s resilience assessment;
• guidance to help a company identify material
information and apply the requirements for
comparative information;
• sources of guidance that a company is permitted
to use to identify sustainability-related risks and
opportunities and disclosures in the absence
of a specific applicable IFRS Sustainability
Disclosure Standard;
• reference to the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard
for the measurement of greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions, which is already in use by many
companies; and
• guidance on how to measure Scope 3 GHG
emissions, including when a company can use
estimation and how to estimate these emissions.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 8

4

Reliefs to assist all companies

The ISSB has introduced temporary and permanent
targeted relief measures to reduce the challenges and
costs of initially applying IFRS S1 and IFRS S2.
For example, the ISSB:
• provided a relief allowing a company to report on
only climate-related risks and opportunities in the
first year it applies IFRS S1 and IFRS S2;
• provided a relief for the requirement that
annual financial statements and annual
sustainability‑related disclosure be reported at
the same time in the first year a company applies
IFRS S1 and IFRS S2; and
• exempted a company from disclosing information
about Scope 3 GHG emissions in its first year of
application of IFRS S2.

5

Proportionality for companies with
fewer resources

6

Capacity building

The ISSB has considered the specific circumstances
of emerging and developing economies and smaller
companies, many of which operate within global value
chains. It has sought to reduce costs:

The ISSB has established a Partnership Framework
for capacity building to support companies, investors
and other capital market stakeholders as they prepare
to use IFRS S1 and IFRS S2.

• by introducing targeted relief measures for some
requirements; and

The framework focuses on supporting the introduction
of IFRS Sustainability Disclosure Standards across
all economic settings so that all market participants
can access its benefits, including the ‘phasing and
scaling’ of requirements in consideration of smaller
companies and of companies operating in developing
and emerging economies.

• by scaling some requirements specifically
for those with fewer resources, which could
include small companies, companies new to
sustainability reporting, and companies operating
in jurisdictions where capital markets and legal
and enforcement systems are less developed or
that have had little exposure to (or experience with)
sustainability reporting.
For example, IFRS S2 takes into consideration a
company’s available skills, capabilities and resources
in determining the approach to scenario analysis the
company is required to apply.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 9

Contents
from page
Section 1

Introduction

11

Section 2

Overview of disclosure deficiencies addressed by IFRS S1 and IFRS S2

16

Section 3

Overview of IFRS S1 and IFRS S2

26

Section 4

General evidence on benefits and costs of corporate sustainability disclosure

32

Section 5

Analysis of benefits and costs for investors

38

Section 6

Analysis of benefits and costs for preparers

47

Section 7

Wider market effects

62

Appendix A

References

64

Appendix B

Glossary

69

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 10

1—Introduction

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 11

1—Introduction
What is an Effects Analysis?
The ISSB has assessed the likely costs of
implementing IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 and the
likely ongoing associated benefits and costs of
each Standard for both preparers and investors.
This assessment also considers the benefits of
better economic decision-making that might result
from the implementation of IFRS S1 and IFRS S2.
These benefits and costs are collectively referred to
as ‘effects’.
The ISSB also considered that preparers can
often develop information that investors need at
less cost and with greater accuracy than those
investors would be able to if they had to estimate that
information themselves.
The Effects Analysis looks at the likely effects of
IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 rather than the actual effects,
which cannot be known until after the Standards
have been applied. The actual effects are one
aspect that will be considered during the ISSB’s
post‑implementation review process.7

Sources of information used in this
Effects Analysis

Consultation process

The ISSB gains insight into the likely effects of new
IFRS Sustainability Disclosure Standards through
its exposure of proposals to stakeholders and its
engagement with them through outreach activities.

• IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 exposure drafts
published in March 2022 and open for
comment for 120 days

The ISSB received more than 1,400 comment letters
and completed surveys from stakeholders on the
IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 exposure drafts. The ISSB
also held more than 300 meetings, round tables
and other outreach activities involving more than
30,000 stakeholders. The consultation process
included extensive discussions with preparers,
investors, regulators, standard-setters and accounting
firms worldwide.

• More than 1,400 comment letters and
survey responses received

In addition, the ISSB was informed by the work of
its advisory bodies, which included advisory bodies
for jurisdictional authorities, investors and other
stakeholders.

• Engagement with more than
30,000 stakeholders through more
than 300 events around the world:
29% companies, 25% investors,
13% accounting firms, 8% regulators,
5% standard-setters and 20% others
• Meetings with ISSB advisory bodies

7	The ISSB carries out a post-implementation review of each new Standard. Such reviews are normally limited to consideration of important issues identified as contentious during the development of the requirements and
any unexpected costs or implementation problems encountered.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 12

The ISSB also considered:
• feedback on the Consultation Paper on
Sustainability Reporting, published by the Trustees
of the IFRS Foundation in September 2020;
• comments and effects analyses of standards
proposed by other organisations (for example, the
European Financial Reporting Advisory Group
(EFRAG) and the US Securities and Exchange
Commission (US SEC));
• information on the effects of disclosure under other
relevant frameworks or standards (for example, the
TCFD Recommendations, the SASB Standards and
the CDSB Framework Application Guidance); and
• a review of relevant literature on the benefits and
costs of corporate sustainability disclosure and
reporting standards.

Methodology used for this Effects
Analysis
In this Effects Analysis, the evaluation of effects
is mainly qualitative, rather than quantitative, for
several reasons.

1

Technical limitations make it difficult
and highly subjective to quantify and
monetise all relevant effects.

compare and evaluate their marginal effects. As this
Effects Analysis discusses, the situation in the market
for sustainability disclosure standards is a diverse
set of voluntary and mandatory standards with varied
requirements, focuses and emphases. Benefits are
likely to be more difficult to attribute and value across a
diverse set of stakeholders.

2

Benefits and costs are distributed
unevenly across a wide, diverse range
of companies and investors and arise at
various points in time.

Benefits of new disclosure standards are
expected to develop gradually. It will take time for
sustainability‑related disclosures to be changed in
companies and markets as IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 are
adopted and for the information to be used in investors’
decision‑making. Costs, on the other hand, are likely to
be highest when the Standards are initially applied and
to be experienced mostly by companies applying the
Standards. Costs are expected to reduce over time as
companies learn to apply and integrate the Standards
into their business activities and external sustainability
reporting. Arriving at a quantitative net benefit bottom
line is technically challenging and is dependent on the
experience of using the Standards.

3

Sustainability disclosure standards may
also have broader effects.

Effects on the business processes of companies
applying IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 and on investments
of users of information provided by these companies
can collectively result in emergent benefits such
as improvements in market transparency and
functioning, in information about sustainability-related
risks, in business resilience and in financial stability.
These benefits are expected to emerge over time and
therefore are difficult to assess before the Standards
are applied.

The ISSB has sought to capture
qualitatively the relevant likely effects
of the Standards. Future research is
necessary to determine the actual
changes in companies’ sustainability
reporting and effects on the overall
functioning of capital markets.

In considering the benefits associated with the new
global baseline of disclosures developed by the
ISSB, there are no similar standards against which to

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 13

Specifically, the focus of this Effects Analysis explicitly
considers the objectives and requirements of IFRS S1
and IFRS S2 compared to the diverse voluntary and
mandatory sustainability disclosure frameworks and
standards prevalent in the market. Therefore, when
analysing the effects of IFRS S1 and IFRS S2, the
ISSB compared the potential effects to the status quo
base case—that is, the current situation of corporate
sustainability disclosure involving many voluntary
frameworks and protocols, and various emerging
national and regional disclosure regulations.
This Effects Analysis considers the likely benefits
and costs for:
• companies applying IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 for
their disclosures—preparers; and
• the primary users of these disclosures—
investors.
The analysis includes consideration of how benefits
and costs might vary among preparers and investors in
terms of roles, size, location and previous experience
using other sustainability reporting frameworks.

Matters considered
In evaluating the likely effects of IFRS S1 and
IFRS S2, the ISSB has considered:
(a) how the ability of investors to assess the amount,
timing and uncertainty of a company’s future cash
flows, as well as the company’s financial position
and performance, might be affected by:
• increased transparency, comparability and
verifiability of disclosed information about
sustainability-related risks and opportunities
over time and between companies; and
• whether economic decision-making will be
affected as a result of improved reporting about
sustainability-related risks and opportunities;
(b) how costs for preparers might be affected, both on
the initial application of the Standards and on an
ongoing basis, including:
• costs of collecting data, identifying how data has
been measured, and adjusting data for purposes
of particular valuation models or approaches;
• costs incurred by the lack of data
about sustainability-related risks and
opportunities; and
• the comparative advantage of preparers
in developing information versus investors
developing their own sustainability
information; and

(c) how market outcomes, such as financial stability
and the allocation of capital, might be affected,
taking into consideration sustainability-related
risks and opportunities within the context of
improving transparency to inform investment
decisions.
Comparison of the potential effects to the status
quo base case
This Effects Analysis discusses likely benefits and
costs for companies relative to three broad reporting
starting points:
• no or minimal sustainability reporting (Case 1);
• voluntary sustainability reporting (Case 2); and
• mandatory sustainability reporting (Case 3).
Section 5 Analysis of benefits and costs for investors
and Section 6 Analysis of benefits and costs for
preparers provide more details. When applicable,
the analysis:
• includes summaries of comments on the IFRS S1
and IFRS S2 exposure drafts;
• discusses reports, academic literature and results of
third-party surveys; and
• provides examples based on analysis of
sustainability reporting practices.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 14

Limitations of this Effects Analysis
The main objective of IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 is to
deliver a global baseline of sustainability-related
financial disclosures to report decision-useful
information to investors. The benefits, costs and
overall effects of IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 on individual
companies and investors are a combination of many
factors, including:
• the starting point for a company’s sustainability
reporting;
• how difficult it is to obtain information;
• investors’ experience and resources;
• a company’s size and resources;
• a company’s business and supply chain complexity;
and
• a company’s location of operations.
Effects will also be influenced by the degree of
adoption of IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 around the world
and by broader institutional characteristics, such
as the legal and enforcement systems of individual
adopting jurisdictions.

This Effects Analysis is subject to some assumptions
and limitations:
• larger preparers tend to lead when it comes
to adopting new reporting practices including
sustainability disclosure practices. Therefore,
a portion of this cost–benefit analysis is based
on observations of disclosure practices for
larger preparers.
• developed economies tend to lead when it
comes to sustainability reporting. Therefore,
the analysis is largely based on observations of
disclosure practices for preparers operating in
developed economies.
• some of the referenced results were documented
in smaller samples and might not generalise to all
affected companies.
• evidence on companies’ mandatory financial and
sustainability disclosures gives insights into relative
benefits and costs of specific disclosure mandates
and might not extend to the likely benefits and costs
of IFRS S1 and IFRS S2.
• evidence on companies’ voluntary sustainability
disclosures and standards application only
gives insights into relative benefits and costs for
companies applying those materials. In addition, the
effects on companies might not be the same if those
disclosures became mandatory.

• although many companies use the Integrated
Reporting Framework, the TCFD Recommendations
and the SASB Standards to prepare their
sustainability disclosures, no companies have yet
prepared disclosures applying IFRS S1 and IFRS
S2. Therefore, the actual benefits, costs and effects
of IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 might differ from observed
effects of individual reporting approaches.
• the effects of IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 will depend
on the strength of a jurisdiction’s overall reporting
system and enforcement regime, which are not
under the control of the IFRS Foundation or the
ISSB. Therefore, the effects might be different
depending on where a company operates and
reports, and the associated regulatory reporting and
assurance regimes.
• the analysis reflects market conditions and the
current state of sustainability reporting. Actual
effects will be influenced by changes in market
conditions.

The following sections of this document
describe the ISSB’s analysis of the
effects that are likely to result from the
application of IFRS S1 and IFRS S2.

• the analysis discusses the expected effects overall
and might not be representative of unique reporting
situations and/or effects on individual preparers and
investors.
Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 15

2—Overview of disclosure deficiencies addressed
by IFRS S1 and IFRS S2

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 16

2—Overview of disclosure deficiencies addressed
by IFRS S1 and IFRS S2
The ISSB developed IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 in
response to calls from investors and others for more
consistent global standards that require companies
to provide information about sustainability-related
risks and opportunities. In part, these calls are
driven by the growing importance of, and demand
for, sustainability‑related information and the need to
address current deficiencies in disclosure practices.
This section discusses the drivers and deficiencies in
sustainability-related disclosures.

Sustainability-related risks and
opportunities are important to investors in
assessing a company’s performance and
value creation over time.

Drivers in sustainability-related
disclosures
Sustainability-related risks and opportunities for a
company arise from the company’s dependencies
on resources and relationships and its impacts on
resources and relationships. Such dependencies and
relationships might include a company’s workforce, the
specialised knowledge a company has developed, its
relationships with suppliers and local communities, or
its dependencies on resources and services derived
from nature.
When a company’s business model depends, for
example, on a natural resource—such as water—it
might be affected by changes in the quality, availability
or pricing of that resource. When a company’s
activities result in adverse impacts on those resources,
it might be subject to reputational damage, fines,
penalties or stricter government regulation. When a
company’s business partners and suppliers face
sustainability‑related risks and opportunities,
the company itself might be exposed to related
consequences. Such dependencies, relationships and
impacts can create or erode the company’s financial

performance and financial position. A company’s
ability to remain viable and resilient will, therefore,
rely increasingly on a range of non-financial sources
of value.
Responses to the consultation of the IFRS Foundation
in 2020 on sustainability reporting highlighted the
urgent demand for high-quality international standards
on sustainability-related matters to meet the needs
of global capital markets. In particular, investors, as
well as bodies such as the G20, the G7, the Financial
Stability Board and the International Organization of
Securities Commissions (IOSCO), called on the ISSB
to develop sustainability-related standards—starting
with, but not limited to, climate disclosure. These
stakeholders sought more consistent, complete,
comparable and verifiable sustainability-related
disclosures to enable them to assess the financial
position and performance of a company, inform
their capital allocation decisions, and understand
the company’s resilience to current and future
sustainability-related risks and opportunities.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 17

Investors are increasingly demanding
disclosure about sustainabilityrelated matters.

The current state of sustainability
disclosures

A company’s management of sustainability-related
risks and opportunities is increasingly seen as an
important factor in investors’ decision-making and their
investment strategy.

Disclosure of sustainability-related
information is growing, but the
coverage is uneven and reporting is
largely restricted to large companies in
developed markets.

According to the 2021 Global Investor Survey by PwC,
79% of investors see sustainability-related matters as
a critical component of investment decision-making.8 A
2022 TCFD survey indicated that 90% of investors and
other users drew on climate-related disclosures in their
financial decision-making and 66% of investors factor
these disclosures into the way they price financial
assets.9

Several studies provide insights into the state of
corporate sustainability reporting. Although these
studies offer only a snapshot of current practice using
select samples of companies, the ISSB concluded
that the studies—considered together—provide a
useful and relatively comprehensive snapshot of
global practice.

The 2022 Sustainability Survey of the World
Federation of Exchanges (WFE) noted that investor
demand for sustainability-related disclosure among
WFE member exchanges and affiliates increased from
70% in 2018 to 96% in 2022.10

KPMG’s 2022 review of corporate sustainability
reporting also points to an increase in the proportion
of companies disclosing sustainability information.
The review found that, of the top 100 companies
by revenue in each of the 58 countries considered
(5,800 companies), 79% disclosed sustainability
information—an increase from 64% in 2012.11
This percentage was even higher—96%—for the
250 largest companies globally.

8

C. Chalmers, E. Cox and N. Picard, ‘The Economic Realities of ESG’, London, PwC, 2021.

9

Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures, 2022 TCFD Status Report, New York and Basel, 2022, p. 5.

Disclosure rates vary by company size
Although the number of companies disclosing
sustainability-related information is growing,
many sources indicate that these companies are
generally concentrated among the large companies
(>US$10 billion in market capitalisation) in
developed economies.12
The TCFD noted in its 2022 Status Report that
disclosures varied by company size, with larger
companies (>US$12.2 billion in market capitalisation)
most likely to disclose information along the lines of
the TCFD Recommendations. These larger companies
represented about 86% of companies surveyed that
used the TCFD Recommendations in their disclosures
(see Table 3 in Section 6 Analysis of benefits and
costs for preparers).
Similarly, as shown in Figure 1, the majority of
companies applying the SASB Standards are
large (>US$10 billion in market capitalisation)
and medium‑sized (US$2–10 billion in market
capitalisation) companies, but the reporting rate
among small (<US$2 billion in market capitalisation)
companies is also substantial.

10 World Federation of Exchanges, Exchanges Keep Up Efforts to Support a Sustainable Recovery, London, 2022.
11 KPMG, Big Shifts, Small Steps: Survey of Sustainability Reporting 2022, London, 2022.
12	KPMG, Big Shifts, Small Steps, found that corporate disclosure of sustainability information has grown over the last 20 years. In 2002, only 18% of companies reviewed disclosed sustainability information compared to 79% in 2020.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 18

Figure 1—Number of companies applying
the SASB Standards since 2021 by
market capitalisation

Figure 2—Number of companies applying
the SASB Standards since 2021 by market
capitalisation and region
Middle East
and Africa

Small cap
Medium cap

Europe:
non-EU/UK

Large cap
0

100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900

(Large cap > US$10b; medium cap US$2–10b;
small cap < US$2b)

KPMG’s 2022 review of corporate sustainability
reporting found that, of the 100 largest companies in
each of the 58 countries considered, disclosure rates
were highest in North America (97%), the Asia–Pacific
region (89%) and Western Europe (85%).

Europe: UK
Canada
Latin America

Source: ISSB’s analysis.
Disclosure rates vary by region

Europe: EU

Disclosures also vary by region, with companies
predominantly operating in developed economies.
Most of the 2,750 companies applying the SASB
Standards, for instance, are located in North America,
the Asia–Pacific region and Europe.

Asia–Pacific
region

Similarly, companies applying the TCFD
Recommendations are predominately located in
Europe, followed by the Asia–Pacific region, North
America, Latin America, and the Middle East and
Africa (see Table 3 in Section 6 Analysis of benefits
and costs for preparers).13

Other regions and their disclosure rates included
Eastern Europe (72%), Latin America (69%), and the
Middle East and Africa (56%).
Disclosure content varies by company

United States
0

Large cap

100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000

Medium cap

Small cap

(Large cap > US$10b; medium cap US$2–10b;
small cap < US$2b)

Source: ISSB’s analysis.

The content of sustainability disclosures varies widely.
According to the 2022 KPMG study:
• 64% of sustainability disclosures covered
environmental risk;
• 49% of sustainability disclosures covered social
risks; and
• 44% of sustainability disclosures covered
governance.

13	As illustrated in Table 3 in Section 6 Analysis of benefits and costs for preparers, 60% of European companies have used the TCFD Recommendations to provide disclosures on governance, strategy, risk management and
climate-related metrics and targets. The TCFD Recommendations have been used similarly by companies in other regions, including the Asia–Pacific region (36%), North America (29%), Latin America (28%), and the Middle
East and Africa (25%).

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 19

In the environmental risk category, companies mostly
disclosed climate-related risks. Of the companies
surveyed by KPMG:
• 71% discussed carbon targets; and
• 40% considered biodiversity risk.
This uneven coverage of sustainability topics was
also reflected in companies’ disclosure around the
17 United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development
Goals (SDGs). The majority of companies focused
only on three SDGs relating to climate, responsible
production and consumption, and decent work and
economic growth.
Other surveys of sustainability disclosures have noted
the prevalence of qualitative narratives and the lack of
quantitative metrics, particularly regarding the financial
implications of sustainability issues.
Sustainability disclosure rates also vary by industry
depending on an industry’s perceived risk exposures
and the significance of those exposures. Climate‑related
disclosures tend to be most prevalent in the energy,
mining, technology and automobile industries.
Biodiversity-related disclosures are often most prevalent
in the mining, forest and paper, food and beverages,
energy, utilities and chemical industries.14

The landscape of sustainability
reporting standards, frameworks and
disclosure requirements
Companies and investors face a challenging reporting
environment that involves many reporting frameworks
and standards.
For example, the 2020 Carrots & Sticks report found
266 voluntary and 348 mandatory sustainability
reporting schemes in 60 countries.15 The Reporting
Exchange found about 215 voluntary and more than
980 mandatory sustainability reporting schemes
globally.16 These schemes covered varying aspects
of environmental, social, governance and economic
disclosure themes in various industries. Sources of
these reporting schemes included public law and
regulation, stock exchanges or industry bodies,
standards and guidelines for non-financial reporting,
and index questionnaires for preparing ratings.

Voluntary frameworks
Many companies disclose voluntarily using frameworks
and standards developed by non-governmental bodies
or market-led groups. The most common voluntary
frameworks are the GRI Standards, the Integrated
Reporting Framework, the SASB Standards and the
TCFD Recommendations.17
A global benchmarking study by the International
Federation of Accountants (IFAC) and the Association
of International Certified Professional Accountants
(AICPA) examined 1,350 companies in 2020.
The study found that the GRI Standards were used
by 999 companies, the TCFD Recommendations
by 851 companies and the SASB Standards by
662 companies.18
KPMG found in 2022 that among the top
100 companies in each of 58 countries
(5,800 companies), 68% used the GRI Standards,
34% used the TCFD Recommendations and 33% used
the SASB Standards.
These percentages increased to 78% for the GRI
Standards, 61% for the TCFD Recommendations and
49% for the SASB Standards among the 250 largest
companies globally.19

14 KPMG, Big Shifts, Small Steps.
15	Van der Lugt, van de Wijs and Petrovics, Carrots & Sticks.
16 ESG Book, The Reporting Exchange—Global Source for Sustainability Reporting [database], London, 2023.
17	Several further frameworks and standards are also used to disclose sustainability-related information, including the CDSB Framework, UN Global Compact Principles, ISO Standards and WEF Common Metrics.
18	International Federation of Accountants and Association of International Certified Professional Accountants, The State of Play in Sustainability Assurance, New York and Durham, NC, 2023. This study reviewed 1,350
companies in 21 jurisdictions. The report is based on the review of the largest companies in each jurisdiction by market capitalisation as of approximately 21 March 2021, for fiscal years 2019 and 2020, and 21 March 2022, for
fiscal year 2021.
19 Percentages do not add to 100 because many companies use more than one reporting scheme.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 20

The Center for Audit Quality (CAQ) looked at the
environmental, social and governance (ESG) reporting
of the S&P 500 companies in 2020 and found that 410
companies used the SASB Standards, 329 companies
used the GRI Standards and 302 companies used
the TCFD Recommendations, with more than 230
companies using three or more frameworks.20
However, the use of voluntary frameworks does
not necessarily mean a company complies with all
the disclosure recommendations of the particular
framework. For example, only about half of the
companies applying the SASB Standards report on
all metrics the industry standards specify and many
companies do not fully disclose all the information
in the TCFD Recommendations. The CAQ study
also found that S&P 500 companies used these
frameworks and standards to varying degrees, with
some companies having fully applied a framework or
standard, some companies having partly applied it,
and others having used the framework or standard
only as a reference.
Mandatory frameworks
Mandatory disclosure of sustainability information
exists in many jurisdictions, as shown by the number
of reporting schemes identified by the 2020 Carrots &
Sticks report and the Reporting Exchange database,
but the sustainability-related matters covered and the
disclosure requirements differ.

Sustainability-related disclosure requirements mostly
relate to several topics that are often categorised
as environmental, social and governance matters.
Dominant themes among mandatory disclosure
requirements include issues relating to climate change,
human rights, labour and anti-corruption.
Following the issuance in 2017 of the TCFD
Recommendations, several jurisdictions have
adopted, or plan to adopt, mandatory climate‑related
disclosure requirements aligned to the TCFD
Recommendations. These jurisdictions include Brazil,
Canada, Egypt, the European Union, New Zealand,
Singapore, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the
United States.21
Stock exchange requirements
Disclosure requirements from stock exchanges
also drive sustainability-related disclosure.
The UN Sustainability Stock Exchange (SSE) Initiative
has identified 34 exchanges with 19,929 listed
companies that require sustainability disclosure as
part of their listing rules and 70 exchanges with 48,182
listed companies that issue voluntary sustainability
reporting guidance.22 KPMG found in 2022 that
approximately 23% of the top 100 companies in each
of 58 countries use stock exchange guidance to
disclose sustainability information.

Listing rules and voluntary guidance from stock
exchanges reference several disclosure frameworks
and standards, as shown in Table 1.
Table 1—Disclosure frameworks referenced by
stock exchange guidance
GRI Standards

96%

SASB Standards

79%

Integrated Reporting Framework

76%

CDP

70%

TCFD Recommendations

63%

CDSB Framework

36%

Source: SSE Initiative data.

20	Center for Audit Quality, S&P 500 ESG Reporting, Washington, DC, 2022.
21 Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures, 2022 TCFD Status Report.
22 Sustainable Stock Exchanges Initiative, 2023, https://sseinitiative.org/.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 21

The form of sustainability disclosures required or
suggested by stock exchanges varies considerably. For
example, as observed in the 2022 WFE Sustainability
Survey, most stock exchanges do not specify a format
for reporting, but some stock exchanges encourage
standalone sustainability reports or integration with
annual reports.
This lack of standardisation among stock exchanges
contributes to overall inconsistencies in form and
content of disclosures, affecting the comparability,
quality and reliability of disclosed information.

Deficiencies in disclosures
The many sustainability disclosure frameworks,
inefficiencies in the current preparation of disclosures
and the lack of comparability between the disclosures
of companies can contribute to pressures to deliver
quality disclosures in capital markets.

Quality-related effects
The approaches taken to preparing and disclosing
sustainability-related information are wide ranging.
The multiplicity of frameworks and requirements
contribute to the challenges of ensuring the quality
of disclosures, both in terms of a company’s internal
controls and assurance processes and engaging
investors effectively with the information they need.
The PwC 2021 Global Investor Survey found 33% of
investors identified the quality of current disclosure
as ‘poor’. Respondents to this survey noted a lack of
quality in what they described as ‘fundamental’ areas
of disclosure, specifically in relation to information that
indicates the relevance of sustainability-related factors
to a company’s business model.
Similarly, the PwC 2022 Global Investor Survey
found that 87% of investors think that corporate
reporting contains unsupported claims about
sustainability performance.

A global baseline for sustainability‑related
financial disclosure as embodied in
IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 is important to
improve the quality of disclosures.

Importantly, IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 have been
developed with assurance in mind. Assurance, as the
PwC survey suggests, gives investors confidence in
corporate reporting on sustainability. The IFAC‑AICPA
study found that 64% of the 1,350 companies
examined obtained assurance/verification over at least
some of the information they disclosed in 2021 (an
increase from 51% in 2019). The CAQ study of S&P
500 companies found a similar level of assurance in
2020 (more than 60%). However, the KPMG study
found that only about half or fewer of the companies
it surveyed had some level of assurance for their
sustainability-related disclosures. The IFAC‑AICPA
study found that 97% of audit firm-related
engagements and 58% of other service provider
engagements resulted in limited assurance reports.
Although the IFRS Foundation has no mandate
to develop assurance standards or to determine
the level of assurance required by those applying
IFRS S1 and IFRS S2, it appreciates the importance
of assurance in providing high-quality information to
investors to inform their decision-making. Accordingly,
the IFRS Foundation is working with the International
Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB) to
address this important issue (see Section 5 Analysis of
benefits and costs for investors).

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 22

Use of various report types
The IFAC-AICPA study also showed that companies
disclose sustainability-related information through a
variety of report types—annual reports, integrated
reports, sustainability reports and others. The variation
in report types and formats can affect transparency
by exacerbating investors’ efforts to gather relevant
sustainability-related information and compare it
effectively. The use of many voluntary reporting
regimes also might make it harder to verify companies’
claims regarding their sustainability-related efforts,
contributing to ‘greenwashing’ problems.
Use of more than one framework
Faced with many disclosure frameworks, companies
may also choose to disclose information using more
than one framework. The IFAC-AICPA study found that
more than 1,000 of the 1,350 companies surveyed
reported using more than one framework. The study
highlighted the use of more than one framework as a
growing trend, with 68% of companies using more than
one framework in 2019, 80% in 2020 and 86% in 2021.
‘The need for a harmonized, global system for
reporting decision-useful information is clearer
than ever before given 86% of the companies
reviewed employed multiple standards and
frameworks to prepare and present sustainability
information.’

Although reporting using more than one framework is
more comprehensive, it also adds to the complexity
and cost of disclosure for both those preparing
information and those using it. The 2022 KPMG
study found implicitly that surveyed companies used
more than one framework, with 68% using the GRI
Standards, 34% using the TCFD Recommendations,
33% using the SASB Standards and 23% using
stock exchange guidance (totalling 158%). Of 1,385
companies using the SASB Standards in 2021, 638
(46%) of them also used the TCFD Recommendations,
according to the SASB.
Lack of comparability
The existence and use of many voluntary and
mandatory frameworks, different reporting types
and different sustainability-related measures add
to the difficulties users of that information face in
comparing company performance and aggregating
information across industries and sectors. As a result,
the comparability of sustainability-related disclosures
across companies and jurisdictions is limited. This lack
of comparability increases the costs for investors and
other users of information and reduces the efficiency
and effectiveness of their processes when using
disclosures to assess and compare companies.
These factors also add to the disclosure challenges
and burdens of companies, and are likely to bring
inefficiencies and increased marginal costs to
these companies.

Case study—Comparison of
sustainability-related disclosures from
two steel companies
To illustrate the issues that arise from these factors,
the ISSB compared the 2021 sustainability disclosures
of two companies of similar size operating in the steel
industry. Each of these companies had disclosures of
similar total page length, quality and level of assurance
but used different frameworks, approaches, metrics
and reporting formats.
Table 2 compares each company on four factors:
disclosure framework(s) used, report types, disclosure
content and assurance of disclosed information.
Most noticeably, the two companies differed in the
indicators and metrics used to develop targets and
measure performance, and reported this information in
different types of reports. For example, although each
company discussed the United Nations Sustainable
Development Goals (UN SDGs), the companies
interpreted and treated the UN SDGs in different ways.
The companies also used different metrics
and benchmarks to measure and characterise
performance, despite being in the same industry
and most likely being exposed to similar
sustainability‑related risks and opportunities.

The State of Play in Sustainability Assurance,
IFAC-AICPA, February 2023

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 23

Table 2—Comparison of disclosures from two steel companies
Company A

Company B

Disclosure framework(s)
or standards

GRI Standards, United Nations Global Compact (UN GC), SASB
Standards, EU Non-Financial Reporting Directive (NFRD)

TCFD Recommendations

Report types

Integrated Report (61 pages), Climate Action Report (67 pages),
Basis for Reporting (26 pages), Factbook with Sustainability
Performance section

Integrated Report (54 pages), Sustainability Report (33 pages),
Carbon Neutral Vision (54 pages)

Disclosure content

Integrated Report

Integrated Report

• provides in-depth content on ESG sustainable strategy and
performance, including a roadmap to net zero greenhouse gas
emissions

• discusses overall strategy and business model, including risks

• discusses social factors such as diversity, culture and community
outreach
• discusses 17 SDGs to inform 10 specific outcomes that the
company believes are the most relevant to the company and
discusses further with regards to the outcomes rather than
the goals
• uses ESG sustainability performance indicators in line with the
ISAE 3000 Revised23
Climate Action Report
• provides an in-depth decarbonisation strategy, a discussion
of climate-related risks and opportunities and carbon
performance metrics

Assurance of disclosed
information

• identifies and discusses material sustainability issues, including
initiatives on safety, environment, promotion of climate change
measures, efficient use of resources and energy, human rights,
diversity and inclusion, and human resources development
Sustainability Report
• covers ESG strategy and performance
• provides in-depth information on environmental performance with
specific goals and policies to achieve net zero greenhouse gas
emissions (supplemented by its Carbon Neutral Vision, an in-depth
54-page decarbonisation strategy)
• provides in-depth information on social aspects such as safety,
diversity, human rights and human resources development
• discusses 17 SDGs to report initiatives the company has taken to
achieve each individual SDG

• uses the Climate Action Net-Zero benchmark for self-assessment

• provides information about progress against specific metrics
and targets

Yes—Limited assurance by other service provider of some
environmental performance indicators

Yes—Limited assurance by audit firm of some environmental
performance indicators

23 International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board, International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised), New York, 2013.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 24

Summary
Investors are demanding high-quality and comparable
information on companies’ sustainability-related risks
and opportunities. The current state of sustainability
disclosure, however, is fraught with many reporting
frameworks and standards, and various sources of
thematic and industry-based guidance. This situation
often results in uneven and disparate corporate
sustainability disclosures of variable quality that
differ in their form, focus and coverage. In this
context, it is difficult for investors to effectively and
efficiently compare companies in terms of their
sustainability‑related risks and opportunities.
The development of IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 as a
global baseline for sustainability-related disclosures is
intended to address these deficiencies and challenges.

IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 are designed to
work with any accounting standards used
to prepare financial statements. As such,
they are applicable across jurisdictions.

Companies potentially affected by
IFRS S1 and IFRS S2
Although all public and private companies can apply
IFRS S1 and IFRS S2, the ISSB does not have the
right to mandate the application of the Standards.
Companies can voluntarily apply these Standards and
jurisdictional authorities can decide whether to require
companies to apply them.
IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 are the first two IFRS
Sustainability Disclosure Standards developed by
the ISSB, which was created in 2021. The ISSB has
significant government and jurisdictional support, as
indicated by feedback on the Consultation Paper on
Sustainability Reporting, published by the Trustees of
the IFRS Foundation in September 2020. However,
most jurisdictions have yet to determine whether
and how to adopt the Standards, whether to require
or allow companies to apply the Standards and for
which companies, and the approach to adoption (for
example, the date from which a jurisdiction would
require the Standards to be applied by companies).
The IFRS Foundation is supporting jurisdictions in their
journey to the adoption of the Standards, including by
making available an adoption guide.

IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 are likely to be implemented
initially by companies that already voluntarily disclose
sustainability-related information or comply with other
mandatory reporting requirements. Companies that
apply IFRS Accounting Standards may also implement
IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 because these companies have
previously supported a globally comparable reporting
system with an investor focus. The ISSB acknowledges
the work required for companies and jurisdictions in
this category to ultimately apply the Standards.
About IFRS Accounting Standards
IFRS Accounting Standards play a role in
corporate disclosure in more than 160 jurisdictions:
• 146 jurisdictions require IFRS Accounting
Standards for all or most domestic publicly
accountable companies in their capital markets
(listed companies and financial institutions);
• 14 jurisdictions permit, rather than require,
IFRS Accounting Standards; and
• IFRS Accounting Standards are commonly
used voluntarily by listed companies and
financial institutions in four jurisdictions
that have not made any commitment to use
IFRS Accounting Standards.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 25

3—Overview of IFRS S1 and IFRS S2

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 26

3—Overview of IFRS S1 and IFRS S2
Main concepts in IFRS S1
Description of the concept of sustainability
A company’s ability to generate cash flows over
the short, medium and long term is inextricably
linked to the interactions between the company
and its stakeholders, society, the economy and the
natural environment throughout the company’s value
chain. Together, the company and the resources
and relationships throughout its value chain form
an interdependent system in which the company
operates. The company’s dependencies and impacts
on those resources and relationships give rise to
sustainability‑related risks and opportunities for
the company.
A company must ensure the preservation, regeneration
and development of its resources and relationships
(such as financial, human and natural) over time to
achieve its goals.

IFRS S1 builds on concepts from the Integrated
Reporting Framework, which helps a company
articulate how it uses and affects resources and
relationships for creating, preserving and eroding value
over time. By referring to this articulation of the value
creation process, a company will be better placed
to explain to its investors how it is working within
its business model and value chain to manage the
sustainability-related risks and opportunities that can
affect its performance and ability to deliver financial
value for investors over the short, medium and
long term.
Objective of IFRS S1
The objective of IFRS S1 is to require a company
to disclose material information about its
sustainability‑related risks and opportunities that
is useful to investors in making decisions about
providing resources to the company. The information
required covers the material aspects of a company’s
governance, strategy, risk management, and
metrics and targets for sustainability-related risks
and opportunities.

Disclosure requirements
A company applying IFRS S1 is required to disclose
material information about the sustainability-related
risks and opportunities that could reasonably
be expected to affect the company’s prospects,
particularly current and anticipated financial effects.
IFRS Sustainability Disclosure Standards
use the same definition of ‘material’ as
IFRS Accounting Standards to ensure that
the information provided is focused on that
necessary to inform investor decisions.
‘Information is material if omitting, misstating or
obscuring it could reasonably be expected to
influence investor decisions.’

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 27

IFRS S1 requires a company to provide disclosures
about:
• governance—the governance processes, controls
and procedures the company uses to monitor,
manage and oversee sustainability-related risks and
opportunities;
• strategy—the approach for managing
sustainability‑related risks and opportunities that
could affect the company’s prospects, business
model and value chain;
• risk management—the processes the company
uses to identify, assess, prioritise and monitor
sustainability-related risks and opportunities; and
• metrics and targets—information used to measure
and monitor the company’s performance in relation
to sustainability-related risks and opportunities,
including progress towards any company-set and
mandated targets.

IFRS S1 creates a global baseline to
meet investors’ needs. The Standard
allows a ‘building block’ approach
to enable incremental disclosures
to be added by others to what the
ISSB has identified—as long as the
global baseline is not obscured—
to enhance interoperability with
other international and jurisdictional
sustainability‑related standards.
Sources of guidance
To identify sustainability-related risks and opportunities
to report on, a company applying IFRS S1:
(a) uses IFRS Sustainability Disclosure Standards;
(b) is required to consider the SASB Standards; and
(c) is permitted to consider:
• the CDSB Framework Application Guidance;
• industry practice; and
• the materials of investor-focused standard-setters.

The SASB Standards, which were designed
to meet investors’ fundamental information
needs, provide industry-specific disclosures
across a range of sustainability matters.
Requiring consideration of SASB Standards
when applying IFRS S1 can improve the
comparability of disclosures.

For climate-related risks and opportunities a company
uses IFRS S2 to determine the disclosures to provide.
For disclosures about other sustainability-related risks
and opportunities (including metrics), IFRS S1 points
to other standards and frameworks. In particular,
IFRS S1:
(a) requires a company to consider the SASB
Standards; and
(b) permits a company to consider:
• the CDSB Framework Application Guidance;
• industry practice;
• the materials of investor-focused
standard‑setters;
• the GRI Standards; and
• the European Sustainability Reporting
Standards (ESRS).

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 28

Interoperability with GRI Standards

The Integrated Reporting Framework

The IFRS Foundation and the Global Reporting
Initiative (GRI) signed a Memorandum of
Understanding seeking to coordinate work
programmes and standard-setting activities.

The Integrated Reporting Framework provides
principles-based guidance for reporting structure
and content.

GRI Standards are well-established sustainability
reporting standards focusing on reporting impacts.
Companies that apply the GRI Standards are
geographically diverse, and many of these
companies are in emerging markets.
IFRS Sustainability Disclosure Standards and GRI
Standards can be viewed as two interconnected
reporting pillars that can work together to form a
comprehensive corporate reporting regime for the
disclosure of sustainability information.

Interoperability with European Sustainability
Reporting Standards (ESRS)
The ISSB and the European Commission are
working towards a shared objective to maximise
interoperability of their standards with the aim of
reducing duplication in reporting.

When used together with IFRS Sustainability
Disclosure Standards, including the sources of
guidance referred to in IFRS S1 (such as the
SASB Standards), the Integrated Reporting
Framework can support a holistic view of the
value creation process through governance
and business model disclosure to drive
connectivity between financial statements and
sustainability‑related financial disclosures.

Main concepts in IFRS S2
A company applying IFRS S1 applies IFRS S2 to
provide material information about its climate-related
risks and opportunities.
Objective of IFRS S2
The objective of IFRS S2 is to require a company to
disclose material information about its climate-related
risks and opportunities that is useful to investors in
making decisions relating to providing resources to
the company.

In preparing and disclosing climate-related information
in accordance with IFRS S2, a company is required
also to apply IFRS S1, which sets out relevant
requirements such as the timing of the reporting,
the need to apply assumptions that are consistent
with the financial statements to the extent possible,
how to disaggregate information and the required
characteristics of the information.
Governance
IFRS S2 requires disclosure of material information
about the governance processes, controls and
procedures a company uses to monitor, manage
and oversee climate‑related risks and opportunities,
including a description of the governance body—such
as a board or committee, or individual—with oversight
of climate‑related risks and opportunities.
Strategy
IFRS S2 requires a company to disclose material
information about the company’s strategy for managing
climate-related risks and opportunities, including
information that enables investors to understand
the current and anticipated financial effects of
climate‑related risks and opportunities on the
company’s financial position, financial performance
and cash flows over the short, medium and long term.
IFRS S2 also requires a company to use climaterelated scenario analysis to inform its disclosures
about its resilience to climate change.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 29

Risk management
IFRS S2 requires a company to disclose material
information about the processes the company uses to
identify, assess, prioritise and monitor climate-related
risks and opportunities, including whether and how
those processes are integrated into and inform the
company’s overall risk management process.
Metrics and targets
IFRS S2 requires a company to disclose metrics
and targets to enable investors to understand the
company’s performance in relation to its material
climate-related risks and opportunities, including
progress towards any climate-related targets it has set
and is required to meet by law or regulation.
These metrics and targets include disclosure of
a company’s absolute greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions, expressed as metric tonnes of carbon
dioxide equivalent (CO2e) and calculated using the
GHG Protocol Corporate Standard. The disclosure
is classified as Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3
GHG emissions.
Scope 1—emissions that a company
makes directly
Scope 2—indirect emissions from the
generation of purchased energy consumed
by the company
Scope 3—all other indirect emissions that
occur in the company’s value chain

The requirement to disclose material information
about Scope 3 GHG emissions reflects the importance
of providing information related to a company’s
value chain.
IFRS S2 also requires asset managers, commercial
banks and insurers to disclose GHG emissions
that are financed through their loans and other
investments (financed emissions) to help stakeholders
of these companies, including prudential regulators,
understand risks and opportunities related to the GHG
emissions associated with the activities of companies
participating in financial activities.
IFRS S2 requires a company to provide industryspecific metrics. To support this requirement,
illustrative guidance about industry-specific metrics,
taken from the SASB Standards, accompany IFRS S2.

Reliefs and guidance
In developing IFRS S1 and IFRS S2, the ISSB has
provided temporary or permanent relief from some
requirements and included illustrative examples and
application guidance to assist companies.
Use of reasonable and supportable information
The ISSB introduced in IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 the
concept of ‘reasonable and supportable information
that is available at the reporting date without undue
cost or effort’. This concept is intended to help
companies in applying disclosure requirements
that involve a high level of measurement or
outcome uncertainty.

For example, for a company that is more resource
constrained the costs of obtaining particular
information may be proportionately higher than for a
company with fewer resource constraints. The concept
enables the resource-constrained company to develop
its disclosures using information that is less costly to
obtain as long as that information is reasonable and
supportable.
Quantitative test
In specified circumstances, rather than providing
quantitative information about the current and
anticipated effects of sustainability-related risks
and opportunities on its financial position, financial
performance and cash flows, a company can instead
provide qualitative information.
A company need not provide quantitative information
about the current or anticipated effects of its
sustainability-related risks and opportunities if:
• those effects are not separately identifiable; or
• the level of measurement uncertainty involved in
estimating those effects is so high that the resulting
quantitative information would not be useful.
Additionally, a company need not provide quantitative
information about anticipated financial effects if the
company does not have the skills, capabilities and
resources to provide that quantitative information.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 30

Reliefs
The ISSB has provided several reliefs in applying
IFRS S1 and IFRS S2, including:
• a relief available in the first year a company
reports in accordance with IFRS S1 that permits
the company to report its sustainability-related
financial disclosures after the publication of its
financial statements.
• a relief from providing comparative information in
the first annual reporting period in which a company
applies IFRS S1 and IFRS S2.
• a relief allowing a company to report on only
climate-related risks and opportunities in the first
year it applies IFRS S1 and IFRS S2. A company
applying this relief would be required to provide
information about its other sustainability-related
risks and opportunities in the second year it applies
the two Standards.
• an exemption from the requirement to disclose
information about Scope 3 GHG emissions in the
first year a company applies IFRS S2.
• a relief from applying the GHG Protocol Corporate
Standard, in specific circumstances.
• a relief from reassessing the scope of a company’s
value chain and the categories included in the
measurement of the company’s Scope 3 GHG
emissions, unless a significant event or change of
circumstances occurs.

• a relief allowing a company to measure its
GHG emissions using information for reporting
periods that are different from the company’s
own reporting period. This relief applies when the
information arises from companies in its value
chain with reporting periods that are different
from the company’s own reporting period, in
specific circumstances.
Guidance
The ISSB has provided application guidance for
IFRS S1 and IFRS S2. The Application Guidance for
IFRS S1 covers guidance on sustainability-related risks
and opportunities, materiality, connected information,
interim reporting and comparative information.
The Application Guidance for IFRS S2 covers
scenario analysis, GHG emissions, financed
emissions, cross-industry metrics and climaterelated targets. In particular, the guidance provides a
framework for how a company determines its Scope 3
GHG emissions.
The Application Guidance for IFRS S2 also provides
guidance about climate-related scenario analysis
to support companies’ assessment of their climate
resilience. The guidance builds on materials published
by the TCFD and puts companies on a path to develop
their capabilities and strengthen their disclosures
over time. As part of this guidance, a company is
required to use a climate-related scenario approach
commensurate with its circumstances at its reporting
date, taking into consideration the company’s exposure
to climate-related risks and opportunities and the

skills, resources and capabilities available to the
company, enabling those less able to comply with
the requirement to use a less complex approach
to scenario analysis. The Application Guidance for
IFRS S2 also covers aspects of determining an
approach such as selecting inputs, making analytical
choices and other considerations.

Capacity building
The ISSB will also assist companies and others
by working on capacity building. The ISSB has
established a Partnership Framework for capacity
building to support companies, investors and other
capital market stakeholders as they prepare to use
IFRS S1 and IFRS S2. The framework focuses on
supporting the introduction of IFRS Sustainability
Disclosure Standards across all economic settings,
including the ‘phasing and scaling’ of requirements in
consideration of smaller companies and of companies
operating in developing and emerging economies.
The ISSB has noted that ‘safe harbours’, which give
companies protection from, or reduce, liability on
information disclosed to investors, could be helpful
to support those providing sustainability-related
financial disclosures. Although such protection
is within the remit of jurisdictions and cannot be
provided by the ISSB, the ISSB has noted that
such protection is something that jurisdictions
could consider for those applying IFRS S1 and
IFRS S2.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 31

4—General evidence on benefits and costs of corporate
sustainability disclosure

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 32

4—General evidence on benefits and costs of corporate
sustainability disclosure
The effects of reporting standards
High-quality reporting standards can provide benefits
by inducing companies to disclose information
(increased transparency) and by improving the
comparability of disclosed information.
Standards generally impose costs on capital markets
through the costs of standard-setting and costs to
preparers and investors, but these costs can result
in benefits.
Such benefits would not be achievable in an alternative
scenario in which:
• preparers individually decide what information to
report (content) and how to report it (quantitative
measures, qualitative content and frequency of
reporting); and
• investors individually acquire and integrate diverse
information sets into their decision-making.

Improvements in transparency reduce uncertainties
about a company and lower information asymmetry
between the company’s insiders and users of
financial reports, as well as between types of users
(for example, sophisticated and unsophisticated
investors). In turn, there will be less demand among
users for seeking a higher price when uncertainty and
information asymmetry risks are high.

Improved transparency allows companies
to raise capital at a lower cost, opening
up greater opportunities for investment,
which in turn leads to economic growth
and development.
Improved transparency not only has direct economic
effects but also enables better monitoring of companies
by investors, which in turn can lead to improvements in
how companies are run and their performance through
improved governance.

Investors and other stakeholders rely on information
about one company to draw inferences about the
performance and prospects of other companies.
Increased comparability of companies reduces
investors’ information processing costs—for example,
costs associated with acquiring information and
incorporating it into relevant forecasts and investment
decisions—leading to more efficient functioning of
capital markets. Similarly, commonly applied standards
help increase comparability across jurisdictions,
lowering barriers to cross‑border investment.

Academic insights
As mentioned previously, the main purpose of
corporate general purpose financial reports is to
reduce the amount of information asymmetry between
companies and users of financial reports, and between
types of users. More and better financial disclosure can
lead to improved liquidity, lower cost of capital, higher
asset prices and better corporate decisions.24

24	See A. Goss and G.S. Roberts, ‘The Impact of Corporate Social Responsibility on the Cost of Bank Loans’, Journal of Banking and Finance, vol. 35, no. 7, 2011; S. El Ghoul et al., ‘Does Corporate Social Responsibility Affect
the Cost of Capital?’, Journal of Banking and Finance, vol. 35, no. 9, 2011; D.S. Dhaliwal et al., ‘Voluntary Nonfinancial Disclosure and the Cost of Equity Capital: The Initiation of Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting’,
The Accounting Review, vol. 86, no. 1, 2011; S. Chava, ‘Environmental Externalities and Cost of Capital’, Management Science, vol. 60, no. 9, 2014; B. Cheng et al., ‘Corporate Social Responsibility and Access to Finance’,
Strategic Management Journal, vol. 35, no. 1, 2014; M. Plumlee et al., ‘Voluntary Environmental Disclosure Quality and Firm Value: Further Evidence’, Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, vol. 34, no. 4, 2015; R.J. Casey
and J.H. Grenier, ‘Understanding and Contributing to the Enigma of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Assurance in the United States’, Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, vol. 34, no. 1, 2015; E.M. Matsumura, R.
Prakash and S.C. Vera-Munoz, ‘To Disclose or Not to Disclose Climate-change Risk in Form 10-K: Does Materiality Lie in the Eyes of the Beholder?’, 2017; P. Bonetti, C.H. Cho and G. Michelon, ‘Environmental Disclosure and
the Cost of Capital: Evidence from the Fukushima Nuclear Disaster’, 2018; J. Jung, K. Herbohn and P. Clarkson, ‘Carbon Risk, Carbon Risk Awareness and the Cost of Debt Financing’, Journal of Business Ethics, vol. 150, 2018;
and H.B. Christensen, L. Hail and C. Leuz, ‘Mandatory CSR and Sustainability Reporting: Economic Analysis and Literature Review’, Review of Accounting Studies, vol. 26, no. 3, 2021, for review.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 33

Global reporting standards play a critical
role in information supply and information
consumption in capital markets because
they can improve the transparency of
corporate reporting and can help reduce
the information gap between companies
and their stakeholders.
One example of global standards is IFRS Accounting
Standards, which are used in more than
140 jurisdictions. A review of about 200 academic
studies on the effects of mandatory adoption of
IFRS Accounting Standards in the EU found that,
although benefits were not experienced in all
cases, on average there were benefits to applying
IFRS Accounting Standards across jurisdictions.25
These benefits included increased transparency and
comparability, lower cost of capital, increased market
liquidity, improved corporate investment efficiency and
improved international capital flows.

Prior academic research on voluntary and mandatory
sustainability reporting has highlighted benefits of
sustainability reporting on average. For example,
improved sustainability disclosures result in the lower
cost of capital and lower cost of debt.26 More recently,
academic research found that carbon disclosure has
a material effect on companies’ cost of capital and
stock returns.27
The evidence from research is consistent with
stakeholder comments on the IFRS S1 and IFRS S2
exposure drafts: some respondents stated that the
application of the Standards would likely reduce the
cost of capital and lead to better functioning of capital
markets over time.

The ISSB expects IFRS S1 and IFRS S2
to improve the transparency and quality
of information available to investors
and to benefit the functioning of capital
markets in general.

Academic research also provides insights into
information processing costs, such as costs of
collecting and analysing data:28
• information processing costs have implications for
the quality and speed of decision-making; and
• mandatory reporting standards help reduce some of
the processing costs.
With the multiplicity of sustainability reporting
frameworks, standards and approaches, investors’
processing costs associated with collecting and
analysing sustainability-related information are
currently substantial—investors can either look through
lengthy sustainability disclosures to identify relevant
information and determine its comparability to other
companies’ disclosures, or rely on costly products of
information intermediaries who collect, aggregate and
standardise the reported sustainability information.

25	B. Singleton-Green, The Effects of Mandatory IFRS Adoption in the EU: A View of Empirical Research, Information for Better Markets, London, Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, 2015.
26	However, some studies found no association between the cost of capital or cost of debt and sustainability performance and disclosure (for example, P. M. Clarkson et al., ‘The Relevance of Environmental Disclosures: Are
Such Disclosures Incrementally Informative?’, Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, vol. 32, no. 5, 2013 and C. Stellner, C. Klein and B. Zwergel, ‘Corporate Social Responsibility and Eurozone Corporate Bonds: The
Moderating Role of Country Sustainability’, Journal of Banking and Finance, vol. 59, 2015).
27	P. Bolton and M.T. Kacperczyk, ‘Carbon Disclosure and the Cost of Capital’, 2021, and ‘Global Pricing of Carbon-Transition Risk’, Journal of Finance, forthcoming, last revised 5 August 2022.
28	See E. Blankespoor, E. deHaan and I. Marinovic, ‘Disclosure Processing Costs, Investors’ Information Choice, and Equity Market Outcomes: A Review’, Journal of Accounting and Economics, vol. 70, no. 2–3, 2020, p. 101344,
for review.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 34

A 2022 survey of US institutional investors and
companies by the SustainAbility Institute by
Environmental Resources Management (hereafter,
the ERM survey) estimated that large investors spend
an average of US$993,000 annually on collecting
and analysing climate-related data to inform their
investment decisions, of which:
• US$473,000 is spent on external sustainability
ratings, data providers and consultants;
• US$226,000 is spent on collecting climate data
related to assets; and
• US$294,000 is spent on internal climate-related
investment analysis.29
Although these amounts are for a small sample
of users and likely do not generalise to all users—
especially those lacking the resources and
sophistication to process unstandardised sustainability
information—they are indicative of the high information
processing costs faced by investors. Establishing
standardised sustainability reporting can reduce
costs associated with the acquisition and production
of information.

Several academic studies have examined the impact
of sustainability standards and mandatory reporting
on disclosures and company actions. Specifically,
recent studies examined the role of voluntary SASB
Standards for corporate sustainability reporting
and sustainability-related actions in the US and
pointed to the benefits of sustainability standards.30
Specifically, the studies found that following the
release of SASB Standards, publicly traded companies
in the US improved their disclosures of material
sustainability information on average. There were also
significant improvements in companies’ sustainability
performance (for example, reduced GHG emissions,
pollution levels and workplace injuries) among
companies applying the SASB Standards.
Several research studies have examined the
information and real effects of mandatory
sustainability-related disclosures. For instance, one
academic study found there were fewer mining-related
violations and injuries, and lower labour productivity—
consistent with an increased organisational focus on
safety—following the introduction of a new requirement
in the US to include mine-safety records in financial
reports (Section 1503 of the Dodd–Frank legislation).31

An analysis of sustainability disclosure mandates
around the world found mandatory ESG disclosures
have beneficial informational and real effects.32
The analysis included a sample of 17,680 companies
across 65 countries and found that mandating ESG
disclosures increases the availability and quality
of ESG reporting (especially for poorly performing
companies) and reduces the likelihood of negative
ESG-related incidents and the risk of stock price crash.

Academic evidence of improved
disclosures and improved sustainability
performance after the application of
sustainability reporting mandates and/or
voluntary standards highlights the role of
sustainability standards in the reporting
process and sustainability performance.

29	SustainAbility Institute by ERM, Costs and Benefits of Climate-Related Disclosure Activities by Corporate Issuers and Institutional Investors, https://www.sustainability.com/thinking/costs-and-benefits-of-climate-relateddisclosure-activities-by-corporate-issuers-and-institutional-investors/.
30	See for example, K. Bochkay, J. Hales and G. Serafeim, ‘Disclosure Standards and Communication Norms: Evidence of Voluntary Disclosure Standards as a Coordinating Device for Capital Markets’, Miami, Florida, University of
Miami Business School Research Paper no. 3928979, 2021; K. Bochkay, S. Choi and J. Hales, ‘“Mere Puffery” or Credible Disclosure? The Real Effects of Adopting Voluntary ESG Disclosure Standards’, 2022; E. Rouen, K. Sachdeva
and A. Yoon, ‘The Evolution of ESG Reports and the Role of Voluntary Standards’, 2022; and M. Goettsche et al., ‘Materiality Indications as a Double-Edged Sword: Real Effects of Sustainability Disclosure Standards’, 2023.
31	See H.B. Christensen et al., ‘The Real Effects of Mandated Information on Social Responsibility in Financial Reports: Evidence from Mine-safety Records’, Journal of Accounting and Economics, vol. 64, no. 2–3, 2017, pp. 284–304.
32	See P. Krueger et al., ‘The Effects of Mandatory ESG Disclosure Around the World’, European Corporate Governance Institute—Finance Working Paper no. 754, Brussels, 2021, pp. 21–44.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 35

There is limited academic research on the costs
to preparers of applying sustainability standards,
primarily because such proprietary company-level data
is generally unavailable. The ERM survey found that
companies spend an average of US$533,000 annually
on climate-related disclosure. Although this amount
is for a small sample of US companies and likely
does not generalise to other companies—especially
smaller companies and/or companies operating in
developing markets—it is indicative of the substantial
costs involved in providing sustainability disclosures to
the market.
Most preparers that commented on the IFRS S1
and IFRS S2 exposure drafts said the costs of
implementing the Standards would be substantial
and would depend on many factors, such as the
starting point of sustainability reporting, company size,
business and supply chain complexity, and location.
Preparers said many of the costs involved would be
one-time investments with permanent benefits, and
the costs after the initial year would substantially
decrease. Many respondents from emerging markets
and developing economies, as well as preparers from
smaller companies, said they would face relatively
higher implementation and ongoing application costs
compared to companies operating in advanced
economies. These higher costs relate to available
social and public goods, data and expertise.

Considering recent academic insights on sustainability
reporting and standards application, as well as prior
experience with mandating general purpose financial
reporting standards (for example, the adoption of
IFRS Accounting Standards in many jurisdictions),
the ISSB anticipates the application of IFRS S1 and
IFRS S2 will result in more transparent, consistent and
higher-quality sustainability reporting.
Greater transparency and consistency of sustainabilityrelated information is likely to:
• enable investors and other stakeholders to make
decisions based on improved information about
sustainability-related risks and opportunities; and
• enable companies to improve their own
understanding of sustainability-related risks and
opportunities, which might result in improved focus
on sustainability-related actions and performance.
The increasing application of sustainability standards
and frameworks around the world (see Section 2
Overview of disclosure deficiencies addressed
by IFRS S1 and IFRS S2) suggests the benefits of
applying global sustainability standards are likely to
exceed the costs. However, the ISSB acknowledges
that implementation costs will be substantial, and
some companies and jurisdictions might experience
greater benefits and/or lower compliance costs
than others.

The overall reporting ecosystem matters
in determining whether IFRS S1 and
IFRS S2 achieve their objectives. The
success or net benefits of the Standards
depend not only on company compliance
with the requirements, but also on legal
and enforcement systems, assurance
and the extent to which the Standards
are used by companies internationally.

Benefit analysis by the US SEC
and EFRAG
US SEC’s economic analysis of the proposed
climate-related disclosure
The US SEC’s economic analysis of its proposed
climate-related disclosure for investors pointed out
effects similar to those discussed in the previous
paragraphs of this section. The US SEC expects
the proposed rule to improve investor protection and
market efficiency and facilitate capital allocation.
With the mandatory climate-related disclosures,
investors would have access to more consistent,
comparable, transparent and reliable information,
enabling them to make more informed decisions.
This information access will, in turn, reduce the
information asymmetry among investors and between
companies and investors, leading to improved stock
liquidity and lower cost of capital.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 36

The US SEC found there would be increased
compliance costs in meeting the proposed new
disclosure requirements. For companies that already
voluntarily provide information similar to that required,
the compliance cost would be relatively small, but in
other cases the cost would be larger. The US SEC
noted other potential costs such as increased litigation
exposure and the disclosure of proprietary information
about companies’ operations.

Overall, the US SEC believes the current disclosure
system is not providing consistent, comparable
and reliable information on the potential impacts of
climate-related risks on preparers’ businesses and on
strategies to manage those risks. The US SEC expects
that, although costly in many ways, the proposed
requirements would generate net benefits in the
form of increased transparency and comparability in
climate-related disclosures.

EFRAG’s analysis identified direct costs in the form
of administrative costs to prepare the reports and
assurance costs to obtain limited or reasonable
assurance for reported information. Administrative
costs in the first year of applying ESRS were estimated
to be 90% higher than the costs in subsequent years.
Company complexity, size and the extent of previous
sustainability reporting were the most important
determinants of these costs.

The US SEC’s quantitative estimate of climate
disclosure burden is similar to the ERM’s estimate and
is equal to US$530,000 in annual issuer costs after the
first year of implementation.33 However, the US SEC
found difficulties in quantifying climate disclosure costs
for preparers, highlighting that such costs are generally
private information known only to a company.

EFRAG’s cost–benefit analysis of ESRS

Indirect costs, such as litigation costs and costs
associated with disclosures of proprietary or sensitive
information, were also identified in the analysis.
Preparers with more complex value chains and those
operating in foreign markets are expected to face
higher competition costs.

Disclosure costs depend on a given company’s
size, industry, complexity of operations and other
characteristics, which makes comprehensive estimates
difficult to obtain.

EFRAG conducted a cost–benefit analysis of the
first set of draft European Sustainability Reporting
Standards (ESRS). ESRS are being moved into
legislation in the EU, and the cost–benefit analysis was
conducted in the knowledge that it will be mandatory
for all major companies in the EU to apply ESRS in
due course.
The analysis was based on the results of
survey‑based shareholder consultations between
July and September 2022, a study of the EU
Non‑Financial Reporting Directive and a review of the
academic literature.34

In addition to direct and indirect costs, EFRAG’s
analysis identified direct and indirect benefits in the form
of users’ cost savings to find and process sustainability
information, increased efficiencies and improved
sustainability performance of preparers, and other
changes in preparers’ internal processes and policies.
Overall, EFRAG’s cost–benefit analysis concluded
that sustainability reporting costs will likely be realised
in the short term, but the benefits will be visible in the
medium-to-long term, depending on legislative and
non‑legislative developments and other factors.

33	The US SEC’s estimate of climate-related reporting cost is based on six sources: (a) a comment letter from the Society for Corporate Governance that provided some hour and cost estimates for climate reporting by large-cap
companies; (b) a report by the Climate Risk Disclosure Lab at Duke University School of Law’s Global Financial Markets Center that presents survey results of climate-related disclosure costs for three unnamed companies;
(c) an impact assessment conducted by the United Kingdom’s Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy for a rule that, similar to the US SEC’s proposed rules, would require TCFD-aligned disclosures from all
listed companies; (d) two cost estimates from a data analytics company—one that covered primarily risk assessment and analysis pursuant to the TCFD Recommendations and the other for calculating GHG emissions; and (e)
cost estimates for GHG emissions measurement and reporting from two climate management companies (see US SEC Release nos. 33–11042; 34–94478; file no. S7–10–22).
34	EFRAG’s shareholder survey on benefits and costs of the draft ESRS generated 89 responses from preparers, 11 responses from users, seven responses from value chain companies, four responses from assurers and four
responses from other standard-setters and rating agencies.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 37

5—Analysis of benefits and costs for investors

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 38

5—Analysis of benefits and costs for investors
This section discusses investors’ likely benefits and
costs (or effects) of sustainability reporting applying
IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 relative to the status quo of
a diverse set of voluntary and mandatory standards
with differing requirements, focuses and emphases.
The section discusses likely benefits and costs relative
to three broad reporting starting points:

Public nature of disclosure

• no or minimal sustainability reporting (Case 1);

• help improve the comparability of disclosed
information.

• voluntary sustainability reporting (Case 2); and
• mandatory sustainability reporting (Case 3).
When applicable, the section summarises investors’
comments on the IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 exposure
drafts, discusses the results of third-party surveys and
academic literature, and provides examples based on
the experiences of investors in collecting and using
sustainability information. The ISSB uses insights from
these sources to assess likely effects of IFRS S1 and
IFRS S2 on investors.

The ISSB believes IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 will:
• improve the efficiency and effectiveness of capital
markets through the disclosure of sustainabilityrelated financial information that informs investors’
decision-making (increased transparency); and

The ISSB expects the Standards to enable
transparent and consistent sustainability reporting
across companies.
All users of sustainability-related information will have a
consistent basis for analysing the sustainability‑related
risks and opportunities of companies and their peers,
improving access to information and reducing the
costs of obtaining information.

Even if IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 address the needs
of specific users (primary users of general purpose
financial reports), once sustainability information
is disclosed, other parties such as regulators and
members of the public other than investors may also
access this information and use it. However, the
disclosed sustainability-related information is not
primarily targeted to these other groups.

Improved consistency over time and
among companies
Current difficulties and costs for investors
In the current state of sustainability reporting, which
comprises many sustainability frameworks and
approaches, it is costly for investors to monitor the
publication of sustainability disclosures, gather
unstructured sustainability data and transform the
information into measures that can be integrated into
capital allocation and stewardship decisions. The main
contributing factors to these costs are inconsistency
and the wide variety in the quality of sustainability
information reported by individual companies.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 39

When sustainability standards are not mandated,
companies can choose:
• which standard to apply, if any;
• what sustainability topics to report on and the
information to provide; and
• how frequently to report the information.
For investors, this situation creates an information
processing challenge because it becomes hard
to reliably determine a company’s sustainability
performance, risks and opportunities, to assess their
implications for future operations and prospects of the
company, and to compare companies.
In mandatory sustainability reporting settings like
Case 3, a company provides periodic disclosures
on issues as required, which significantly improves
information consistency across time and facilitates
comparability between companies. However, because
of the substantial differences in sustainability
frameworks and standards around the world, investors
continue to face substantial costs associated with
information inconsistency.

Illustration using sustainability ratings
Difficulties in sustainability information processing can
drive investor disagreements. These difficulties can be
illustrated using sustainability ratings by different rating
providers. By applying their expertise, figuring out data
gaps, and transforming reported data into measurable
categories, sustainability data and ranking providers
can offer investors and other stakeholders insights into
a company’s relative sustainability performance, risks
and opportunities, both historical and current.
However, when collecting and interpreting
sustainability data, information intermediaries and data
analysts face the same challenges as other company
stakeholders in terms of diverse sustainability
reporting, or lack of reporting.
Data inconsistencies, combined with diverse
methodologies to deal with data-quality problems and
to process the information, lead to low correlations
of sustainability performance ratings across
rating agencies.

More than 20 academic studies and media
commentaries discuss the effects of disagreement
in ESG ratings, such as reduced informativeness for
investors. For example, one study found greater ESG
rating disagreement is associated with higher return
volatility, larger stock price movements and a lower
likelihood of issuing external financing.35 Another
study found that ESG reporting divergence among
companies is a contributing factor to ESG rating
disagreement.36 Business press shares similar views.
For instance, a Wall Street Journal article titled ‘Why
It’s So Hard to Be an “Ethical” Investor’ concluded that:
‘Environmental, social and governance criteria are
hard to define. When we measure how different ESG
providers rate companies in the S&P 500, there’s often
little overlap.’37

The application of IFRS S1 and
IFRS S2 is expected to improve the
consistency and comparability of
reported sustainability-related risks and
opportunities, which in turn can enhance
the quality and availability of data.

35	D.M. Christensen, G. Serafeim and A. Sikochi, ‘Why is Corporate Virtue in the Eye of the Beholder? The Case of ESG Ratings’, The Accounting Review, vol. 97, no. 1, 2022, pp. 147–175.
36	Q. Cheng, Y. Lou and M. Yang, ‘ESG Reporting Divergence’, Asian Bureau of Finance and Economic Research 10th Annual Conference, Singapore Management University, 2023.
37 J. Sindreu and S. Kent, ‘Why It’s So Hard to Be an ‘‘Ethical” Investor’, The Wall Street Journal, 1 September 2018.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 40

Improved consistency of sustainability-related
financial disclosures
Almost all respondents to the IFRS S1 and
IFRS S2 exposure drafts supported the ISSB’s aim
to develop a comprehensive global baseline for
sustainability‑related disclosures. These stakeholders
strongly welcomed the intention to consolidate the
many different frameworks and standards into a single
set of high-quality sustainability disclosure standards.
In particular, respondents agreed with and
welcomed the development of IFRS S2 to enable a
comprehensive global baseline for climate-related
financial reporting.
For example, the disclosure of Scope 3 GHG
emissions in addition to Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG
emissions will provide investors with a comprehensive
picture of a company’s transition risk exposure. A 2020
CDP Global Supply Chain Report found Scope 3
GHG emissions are on average 11.2 times higher than
Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions.38
This statistic highlights that, although reporting on
Scope 3 will be more challenging for companies,
the omission of such information from sustainability
disclosures can significantly misrepresent companies’
sustainability-related risks and misguide investors.

The disclosure of Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 GHG
emissions will also provide more information about a
company’s GHG emissions performance over time,
including whether a company reduces its Scope 1 and
Scope 2 GHG emissions by outsourcing emissions
(thereby increasing its Scope 3 GHG emissions) or by
actually reducing emissions.
In addition, the disclosure of Scope 3 GHG emissions
will aid in the comparability of companies’ GHG
emissions across business models (for example,
between a company that relies on outsourcing versus
a company that does not). Similarly, the disclosure
of the categories included in the measurement of
Scope 3 GHG emissions will enable investors to
understand a company’s Scope 3 GHG emissions.
IFRS S2 will also aid investors by requiring disclosures
about the inputs, assumptions and estimation
techniques a company has used to measure its
Scope 3 GHG emissions.
As a result of such disclosure, IFRS S2 is expected to
improve the consistency over time and comparability
across companies of Scope 3 GHG emissions
disclosures. Measurement uncertainty in Scope 3
GHG emissions estimates would be reduced
(acknowledging that a range of inputs is required).

Many investors commenting on the IFRS S1 and
IFRS S2 exposure drafts agreed that IFRS S1 and
IFRS S2 should build on the SASB Standards,
highlighting that sustainability-related risks and
opportunities vary by industry. These investors
noted that:
• industry-specific disclosures enable better
comparisons between companies, which is aligned
with how investors conduct research and make
investment decisions;
• the SASB Standards were specifically developed to
meet investors’ information needs rather than the
needs of broader stakeholders; and
• the SASB disclosure topics and associated metrics
were designed to identify material information
that would help an investor determine whether to
provide resources to a company, or would affect an
investor’s assessment of a company’s creation of
value over time.

The ISSB believes IFRS S1 and IFRS S2
can improve the comparability of
sustainability-related disclosures relative
to the status quo, leading to a common
basis of understanding about the
effects of sustainability-related risks and
opportunities on companies’ performance
and prospects.

38	Carbon Disclosure Project, Transparency to Transformation: A Chain Reaction, London, 2021.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 41

Improved data collection, aggregation
and application
The ISSB believes IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 can
substantially improve investors’ data collection,
aggregation and application processes. In the light
of the current state of sustainability reporting—the
multiplicity of disclosure frameworks and standards,
the diversity of topics and measurements, the
varying timing of sustainability reports, and the highly
inconsistent and unstructured nature of sustainability
reports—information acquisition costs for sustainability
data are substantial.
The ISSB expects:
• the application of IFRS S1 will benefit investors
by improving their ability to monitor, acquire and
aggregate material sustainability-related information;
• the application of IFRS S2 will benefit data collection
efforts for climate-related financial information; and
• the application of the Standards will improve
connectivity with financial statements, including
the identification of current and anticipated
financial effects.

Furthermore, the release of sustainability-related
information together with general purpose financial
statements is expected to improve investors’ ability to
jointly monitor and understand disclosures, leading to
more timely and better informed decision-making.
The effect on sustainability data and rating
providers
The application of IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 might affect
information intermediaries such as private ESG data
and rating providers. With the Standards expected to
improve data collection and aggregation, ESG data
and rating providers are likely to benefit from increased
comparability, completeness and verifiability of
sustainability-related information. The improved access
to and collection of data might lead to:
• greater ESG rating agreement and consistency;
• costs savings on data verification procedures;
• improved modelling and estimation procedures; and
• continued and greater innovation among ESG data
and rating providers.

However, the application of IFRS S1 and IFRS S2
might impose costs on some sustainability data and
rating providers as they might need to adapt their
business models to respond to user needs. It is likely
that some investors will begin to process sustainability
data internally instead of relying on information
intermediaries.
The role of digital taxonomy and digital reporting
As well as determining the content of sustainability
reporting, the ISSB plans to prioritise the
development of a digital taxonomy and digital
reporting of sustainability-related financial information.
The ISSB believes the primary benefit of digital
reporting, compared to paper-based reporting, is
the improved ability to access, extract and compare
reported information.
The approach to sustainability reporting currently not
only requires a substantial input of time and money
to prepare the reports but also imposes substantial
information processing constraints on providers of
assurance on the reported information, as well as on
investors, analysts, data providers and others who
consume the information. Currently, sustainability
data providers need to develop solutions to deal with
unstructured non-machine-readable sustainability
disclosures and convert information into more useful
formats, resulting in greater investor reliance on such
secondary sources.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 42

Digital reporting is expected to
enhance the accessibility, searchability,
presentation and structure of
sustainability information and facilitate
digital consumption of sustainabilityrelated disclosures.
Digital access to tagged sustainability-related
disclosures is expected to enable investors to collect,
aggregate, compare and analyse individual companies,
peer groups and portfolios. A digital taxonomy is likely
to democratise access to the data for investors with
fewer resources. It could also bring opportunities for
smaller companies and for companies operating in
developing and emerging economies by making it
easier for investors to follow these companies.
The ISSB believes that developing a digital taxonomy
for sustainability reporting in accordance with IFRS S1
and IFRS S2 that is interoperable with other digital
taxonomies could support companies and investors
in identifying information that is consistent and
comparable between sustainability reporting regimes.

Most respondents to the IFRS S1 and IFRS S2
exposure drafts supported the development of a
digital taxonomy, emphasising that it would contribute
to the global availability and accessibility of data.
Respondents suggested that, with the increase
in textual or narrative data, tagging would help to
consistently synthesise varied sustainability and
climate-related disclosures.
However, the ISSB acknowledges that the benefits
of a digital taxonomy and digital reporting depend on
the full adoption of the taxonomy by jurisdictions and
the availability of tools to collect and analyse tagged
sustainability-related information.

Improved quality of sustainabilityrelated information
The ISSB believes IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 can improve
the quality and verifiability of sustainability-related
information due to:
• required explanations of inputs, assumptions,
estimates and judgements that will support
assurance and provide a basis for higher-quality
estimated and forward-looking information;
• improved transparency regarding the governance
processes, controls and procedures used to
monitor and manage sustainability-related risks and
opportunities;

• enhanced standardisation regarding what
information to disclose and how to disclose it;
• increased review by assurance providers; and
• greater investor reliance on and scrutiny of reported
sustainability-related information, leading to
improved market discipline.
Even though the ISSB cannot require external
assurance for reported information, both IFRS S1
and IFRS S2 are designed to make the reported
information assurable. The ISSB believes the quality
and reliability of reported sustainability-related
information will be higher if it is verified and/or assured
by auditors or other independent parties. The ISSB
acknowledges that preparers might incur costs to
obtain assurance for the reported sustainability-related
information.
For general purpose financial reports, external auditors
play an important role in assuring that companies
comply with accounting standards, which in turn
improves the quality and credibility of financial reports.
Recent surveys by PwC in the EU, the UK, the US
and other jurisdictions found that 76–79% of investors
place more trust in sustainability information if it is
independently verified and assured.39 Investors value
independent assurance on quantitative metrics and
key performance indicators more than on narrative
disclosures, and do not want companies to select
which parts of reporting are subject to assurance.

39	Copies of the surveys can be found at https://www.pwc.com/gx/en.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 43

A 2023 report by the International Federation
of Accountants (IFAC) and the Association of
International Certified Professional Accountants
(AICPA) examined the state of assurance of
sustainability information, based on 2021 reporting.
The report found that the percentage of companies
with assurance on some of their sustainability
information increased from 51% in 2019 to 58% in
2020, and to 64% in 2021. Some jurisdictions—such
as China, Hong Kong, India, Japan, Singapore,
Spain, South Africa, Turkey and the UK—experienced
increases in sustainability assurance. Companies
reporting on sustainability obtained assurance
primarily for their GHG metrics. About 53% of
companies obtained assurance on information in four
examined categories: GHG, other environmental,
social and governance matters.
Improvements in transparency and standardisation
from the application of IFRS S1 and IFRS S2,
combined with increased external scrutiny of
sustainability disclosures, are expected to enhance the
quality of sustainability-related information.
This enhancement can improve the reliability of
the information for the benefit of investors in their
decision‑making.

Improved information to assess
company risk and sustainability
performance

• when a company’s activities result in adverse
external impacts on, for instance, local communities,
the company could be subject to more stringent
government regulations or reputational damage.

Improved risk transparency

Current sustainability-related financial disclosures vary
depending on jurisdictional requirements. In reporting
regimes like Case 1 and Case 2, disclosures about
sustainability-related risks are either missing, reported
jointly with disclosures of other risks (for example,
market risks, economic risks and competitive risks),
or inconsistently reported by companies due to the
voluntary nature of disclosures and application of
different disclosure frameworks and standards.

The main objective of IFRS S1 and IFRS S2
is to provide investors with information on
sustainability‑related risks and opportunities.
The ISSB believes that having disclosures on
sustainability-related risks and opportunities will enable
investors to understand a company’s dependency on
various resources and assess the company’s impacts
on those resources. For example:
• when a company’s business model or the business
models of its partners largely depend on natural
resources (for example, oil, water and forests),
they are likely to be affected by favourable or
unfavourable changes in the quantity, quality and
pricing of those resources;
• when a company or its business partners
operate in geographies with a high likelihood of
extreme weather events, their operations could
be unexpectedly disrupted, leading to production
delays, loss of assets, loss of revenue and other
adverse consequences; and

The ERM survey identified that investor respondents
found the ‘reduced risk of owning a company’ to
be the third most important benefit of sustainability
disclosures, after benefits like being able to meet
investor and customer demands, and improved
sustainability performance.

The ISSB believes the global baseline of
sustainability-related information required
by IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 can facilitate
investors’ understanding of risks and
opportunities of companies with different
business models, exposure to climate
risks based on locations of operations,
and supply-chain dependencies.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 44

Improved disclosures of sustainability-related risks
are also likely to reduce information asymmetry
between companies and investors and make it
easier for investors to predict future cash flows and
uncertainties around those cash flows, leading to lower
risk of owning a company and, as a result, lower cost
of capital.
Improved forward-looking strategy transparency
As well as requiring companies to identify and report
on sustainability-related risks and opportunities,
IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 require disclosures on a
company’s strategy to respond to those risks and
opportunities. Specifically, a company is required
to disclose how it is responding to the identified
sustainability-related risks and opportunities and
provide periodic updates on the progress of plans
disclosed in prior reporting periods.
Compared to no disclosure or inconsistent disclosure
on sustainability-related plans and strategies,
enhanced disclosure on strategy as per IFRS S1
and IFRS S2 will enable investors to understand
those aspects of the preparers’ management of
sustainability-related risks and opportunities.
The ERM survey found that investors consider ‘better
access to data capable of enhancing corporate
strategy’ to be one of the top five benefits of improved
sustainability reporting.

A Moody’s assessment looked at how a sample of
companies applied the TCFD Recommendations
(see Figure 3). About 47% of European companies
and 17% of US companies already reported on risk
management processes and strategy. However, there
was a large variation in disclosure levels across
industries, with technology and media companies
having the lowest rate of risk management and
strategy reporting (4.5%) and insurance companies
having the highest rate of reporting (77.8%).40
Among the larger companies (>US$5 billion in
market capitalisation), 53% in Europe and 27% in
the US reported on risk management processes
and strategies. Reporting among smaller companies
(<US$5 billion in market capitalisation) was 27% and
10% for European and US companies, respectively.
The ISSB believes that disclosures of
sustainability‑related plans and strategies would
benefit investors by improving transparency regarding
companies’ forward-looking strategy and reducing
gaps in disclosure by companies and across
industries. The ISSB acknowledges the difficulties
with comparability of information due to the qualitative
nature of such disclosures.

Figure 3—Application of TCFD Recommendations
by US and European companies
Governance
(a) Board’s Oversight

17%

Governance
(b) Management’s Role

36%

10%

31%

Strategy
(a) Risks and Opportunities

45%

Strategy
(b) Impact on Organization

34%

Strategy 5%
(c) Resilience of Strategy

67%

50%

24%

Risk Management
(a) Risk ID and Assessment Processes

15%

Risk Management
(b) Risk Management Processes

17%

Risk Management
(c) Integration into Overall Risk Mgmt.

16%

50%
47%
41%

Metrics and Targets
(a) Climate-Related Metrics

21%

Metrics and Targets
(b) Scope 1, 2, 3 GHG emissions

19%

Metrics and Targets
(c) Climate-Related Targets

74%
64%

25%
0

10

Region:

20

61%
30

US

40

50

60

70

Europe

Source: Moody’s Report on TCFD-aligned Reporting
by Major US and European Corporations.

40	S. Gaur et al., ‘TCFD-aligned Reporting by Major US and European Corporations’, Moody’s Analytics White Paper, New York, Moody’s Analytics, 2022. The sample for analysis consisted of 659 US and 424 European
companies. For these companies, Moody’s conducted an artificial intelligence-based analysis of all public filings, including financial filings, annual reports, integrated reports, sustainability reports and other publicly available
reports associated with companies’ annual reporting or sustainability.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 45

Improved metrics
IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 require disclosures
of metrics and targets to enable investors to
understand a company’s performance in relation
to its sustainability‑related risks and opportunities.
The Standards include many specific disclosure
requirements that are quantitative. Disclosures will
be subject to an assessment of materiality and
industry-specific disclosure requirements to ensure the
information is relevant and representationally faithful to
warrant disclosure to investors.
However, relative to the current situation of no
metric reporting (for example, Case 1 and some
instances of Case 2) or heterogeneous reporting
of sustainability‑related metrics (as in Case 2 and
Case 3),41 investors are expected to gain a clearer
understanding of companies’ current sustainability
performance, specific targets and how to periodically
assess progress in achieving those targets.
Investors are also expected to be able to compare
companies more readily, particularly peer companies
that operate in similar industries.

The public consultation carried out by the European
Commission on the Review of the Non-Financial
Reporting Directive in 2020 shows about 82% of
respondents believe standardisation would resolve the
problems of reliability, comparability and companies
not reporting all relevant information. The Moody’s
assessment on the application of the TCFD
Recommendations for a sample of companies found
that about 74% of European companies and 21%
of US companies already provide some information
on climate-related metrics and targets. However, the
proportion of companies that report metrics varies
greatly, across industries and companies of all sizes.

The ISSB expects standardised
metric reporting to significantly reduce
data analysis costs for investors who
currently go through large amounts of
sustainability-related disclosures to find
comparable information relevant for their
decision-making.

As well as standardised reporting of metrics and
targets across companies, the ISSB expects that
digital reporting using the ISSB’s digital taxonomy
would enable investors to automatically collect and
process relevant data for many companies at a time.
As discussed in Agenda Paper 25A A digital financial
reporting strategic framework for the December 2022
IASB meeting, benefits of digital reporting include
improved capital market efficiency and transparency,
improved information processing for investors, an
expanded population of companies in investors’
portfolios and greater access to capital.42
Most respondents to the IFRS S1 and IFRS S2
exposure drafts agreed with, and welcomed, the
development of a digital taxonomy, saying it would
contribute to the global availability and accessibility
of data. Referring to the increase in textual or
narrative data, respondents said tagging would help
to consistently synthesise varied sustainability-related
financial disclosures.

41	The case study on the comparability of sustainability disclosures in Section 2 Overview of disclosure deficiencies addressed by IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 and the analysis of employee health and safety disclosures of 50 large
companies by S. Kotsantonis and G. Serafeim, ‘Four Things No One Will Tell You About ESG Data’, Journal of Applied Corporate Finance, vol. 31, no. 2, 2019, pp. 50–58, demonstrate the extent of metric heterogeneity in
companies’ sustainability disclosures.
42 For a summary of academic evidence, see I. Troshani and N. Rowbottom, ‘Digital Corporate Reporting: Research Developments and Implications’, Australian Accounting Review, vol. 31, no. 3, pp. 213–232.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 46

6—Analysis of benefits and costs for preparers

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 47

6—Analysis of benefits and costs for preparers
This section discusses preparers’ likely benefits and
costs (or effects) of sustainability reporting applying
IFRS S1 and IFRS S2. The section discusses likely
benefits and costs relative to three broad reporting
starting points:
• no or minimal sustainability reporting (Case 1);
• voluntary sustainability reporting (Case 2); and
• mandatory sustainability reporting (Case 3).
When applicable, the section summarises preparers’
comments on the IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 exposure
drafts, discusses the results of third-party surveys and
academic literature and provides examples based
on the experiences of preparers in collecting and
using sustainability information. The ISSB uses these
sources to qualitatively assess the effects of IFRS S1
and IFRS S2 on companies.

Cost reductions or savings, including
increased efficiency, of disclosure
processes

Figure 4—Engagement in sustainability reporting

The growing demand for sustainability information is
generating a growing supply of sustainability reporting.
For instance, the KPMG Survey of Sustainability
Reporting indicates that, in 2020, 80% of large
companies worldwide engaged in sustainability
reporting, which is four times higher than the 20%
reporting rate in 2002 (see Figure 4).

90

At the same time, disclosures vary by company,
driven by the multiplicity of sustainability reporting
frameworks, standards and approaches, the many
sustainability topics to report on, differences in
sustainability topics based on industry, the lack of
sustainability reporting oversight and jurisdictional
differences in sustainability reporting requirements
around the world.

50

As an example, one academic study examined
employee health and safety disclosures of 50 large
(Fortune 500) publicly traded companies in several
industries.43 The study found more than 20 ways that
companies diverge in how they report on the topic
(such as terminology and units of measurement).

0

100

95%

93%
92%

83%

80
70

20

96% 96%

75% 77%

79%

64%
53%

45%

40
30

71% 73%

64%

60

93%

41%

35%
24%
18%
18%

10

12%
1993 1996 1999 2002 2005 2008 2011 2013 2015 2017 2020 2022

N100

G250

Source: KPMG Survey of Sustainability
Reporting 2020.

43	See Kotsantonis and Serafeim, ‘Four Things No One Will Tell You About ESG Data’.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 48

The ISSB’s analyses of voluntary sustainability
reporting practices among large (S&P 500)
US companies confirm a large variation in the
sustainability frameworks and standards used across
companies and over time, with many companies using
the SASB Standards and the TCFD Recommendations
in recent years (see Figure 5).

Figure 5—Sustainability reports of US S&P 500
companies, 2010–2022
80%
70%
60%
50%

Value

A 2023 analysis of global sustainability disclosures
of 1,350 companies in 21 jurisdictions by IFAC
and AICPA also demonstrated a wide variation in
sustainability reporting practices.44 For example, the
analysis found that 86% of companies applied different
sustainability reporting standards and frameworks, and
there was a large variation in standard and framework
adoption practices within jurisdictions. Similarly, there
was a large variation in assurance of sustainability
reports, with 64% of sustainability reports receiving
some level of assurance.

40%

To illustrate the process of reporting using different
frameworks and standards, consider the data impact
cycle outlined in the book Win with Advanced
Business Analytics: Creating Business Value from Your
Data (see Figure 6):45

30%
20%
10%
0%
2010

2012

2014

2016

Publish year

GRI

2018

2020

2022

• Identify the objectives of sustainability reporting.
• Master the data.
• Perform a test plan.

Measure names

CDP

Sustainability reporting using different frameworks and
standards with varying measures and outcomes poses
challenges when processing the information and
making comparisons across companies and over time.
This situation can cause confusion for investors and
preparers. Moreover, it requires many resources and
imposes substantial costs on companies to provide
sustainability disclosures applying different frameworks
and standards.

SASB

TCFD

• Address and refine the results.
• Communicate results.

Source: ISSB’s analysis.

• Track outcomes.
Standards and frameworks can have different
audiences for the information, objectives, scores and
measurements for sustainability reporting.

44	International Federation of Accountants and Association of International Certified Professional Accountants, The State of Play in Sustainability Assurance.
45 See J.P. Isson and J. Harriott, Win with Advanced Business Analytics: Creating Business Value from Your Data, Hoboken, NJ, John Wiley & Sons, 2013, for details.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 49

The steps in the data impact cycle become complex
if a company chooses to apply different frameworks
or standards for its sustainability reporting. Increased
complexity imposes substantial costs on the company
and its employees.
Companies’ uncertainty over which frameworks and
standards to use to meet investors’ needs, along with
the substantial costs associated with applying different
frameworks and standards, can result in either no
disclosure of relevant sustainability information or a
confusing mix of disclosures.
Preparers face substantial costs associated with
frequent external requests (through surveys or
other means) for sustainability-related information.
Standardisation and consistent reporting of
sustainability-related information can help satisfy
investor demands and eliminate some of these costs
for preparers.

Figure 6—Data impact cycle

Identify the
objective
I
Track
outcomes

T

M

Master the
data

The proposals in the IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 exposure
drafts were developed in response to calls from
investors, preparers and others to simplify the
process of sustainability disclosure by developing
global standards for reporting consistent, complete,
comparable and verifiable sustainability-related
information. This information can be used to assess
a company’s:
• financial position and performance;
• strategy and business;
• future cash flows and uncertainty around them; and,
therefore,

Communicate
C
results

P
A
Address and
refine the
results

Source: Isson and Harriott, 2013.

Perform test
plan

• creation of value over time.
Preparers represented the single largest group that
provided feedback on the IFRS S1 and IFRS S2
exposure drafts. Most preparers agreed with,
and welcomed, the development of IFRS S1 and
IFRS S2 to provide a comprehensive global baseline
of sustainability-related financial disclosures for
capital markets.
Respondents also said they supported the ISSB’s
approach of building on well-established sustainability
reporting frameworks and standards, including the
SASB Standards, the CDSB Framework and the
TCFD Recommendations.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 50

The ISSB expects that building on these frameworks
and standards will assist companies in the transition to
applying IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 and help mitigate the
costs of implementing these Standards.

Companies that have been reporting
sustainability-related information (either
on a voluntary basis (see Case 2) or
because of a disclosure mandate (see
Case 3)) should be able to leverage their
disclosure platforms to collect and report
relevant sustainability-related information
when applying IFRS S1 and IFRS S2.
Support from digital taxonomy and digital
reporting
The ISSB plans to prioritise developing a digital
taxonomy and digital reporting of sustainability-related
information. Paper-based and/or manual sustainability
reporting by companies involves a greater deal of time
and money to prepare the report, and often results
in less timely disclosures. The ISSB believes digital
reporting and digital taxonomies, despite being costly
investments at the beginning of implementation, will
improve the efficiency of disclosure processes and
lead to sustainability reporting that is more timely, more
accurate and easier to process.

A PwC report on the automation of corporate reporting
titled ‘Disclosure management: Streamlining the Last
Mile’ highlights that ‘leading practices for Disclosure
Management application implementations have
resulted in approximately 30% reductions in cost and
time while enhancing reporting control environments,
improving information quality and timeliness.
Streamlining and automating pervasive manual
reporting processes and controls allows professionals
to spend more time on the analysis and interpretation
of a company’s performance drivers and results.’46
Efforts and costs are expected to vary by company
The ISSB recognises that the effort and costs of
transition to IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 will be greater
for companies that have not previously undertaken
sustainability reporting, and especially for companies
that have also not monitored or measured
sustainability-related risks and opportunities for
internal management purposes. The ISSB also
acknowledges that companies that are smaller in size
and/or operating in emerging markets are likely to have
fewer resources and/or require more time to prepare to
comply with IFRS S1 and IFRS S2. Even companies
with enough resources will require additional
investments to improve their data collection and
estimation processes (for example, access to skills and
expertise, technology and organisational structure).

ISSB’s implementation support
The ISSB has included mechanisms within IFRS S1
and IFRS S2 to help all companies implement the
Standards and improve their reporting over time (using
the concept of ‘undue cost or effort’). The ISSB has
also provided specific reliefs to assist companies with
fewer resources (see Section 3 Overview of IFRS S1
and IFRS S2).

Improved performance and lower cost
of capital
Sustainability performance
Academic literature has examined how companies’
commitments to disclosure can influence real activities
such as internal capital allocation decisions and other
operating decisions.47
Several non-mutually exclusive factors can contribute
to companies’ decisions to take actions once they
begin reporting applying IFRS S1 and IFRS S2.

46	PwC, Disclosure Management: Streamlining the Last Mile, London, PwC, 2012.
47	See C. Leuz and P.D. Wysocki, ‘The Economics of Disclosure and Financial Reporting Regulation: Evidence and Suggestions for Future Research’, Journal of Accounting Research, vol. 54, no. 2, 2016, and Christensen, Hail
and Leuz, ‘Mandatory CSR and Sustainability Reporting’, for review.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 51

1

2

As discussed in Section 3 Overview of IFRS S1 and
IFRS S2, the Standards provide detailed guidance for
companies on what sustainability-related information
to report on and how to report it. Therefore, the
application of IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 will likely reduce
deficiencies in sustainability-related disclosures by
reducing management reporting discretion and by
shifting management focus towards sustainability
matters relevant to investors. From the perspective of
investors, IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 will likely decrease
disclosure processing costs and hence increase
reliance on and scrutiny of reported sustainability
information. Greater monitoring of disclosure by
investors can in turn result in greater management
actions, leading to improvements in sustainability
performance and the fulfilment of sustainability goals.

The application of IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 can lower
the costs of benchmarking by introducing greater
standardisation of reporting practices in companies.
As a result, companies can meaningfully assess their
own sustainability performance relative to a peer
group and set relevant targets. Several academic
papers have provided evidence of across-company
learning. For example, one study found that disclosing
work safety violations led other geographically close
facilities to substantially improve their work safety
measures, resulting in fewer occupational injuries.48
Similarly, facilities have used disclosures of the
GHG emissions of their peers to assess their own
relative GHG performance, leading to reductions in
GHG emissions.49

3
When preparing sustainability-related disclosures
applying IFRS S1 and IFRS S2, companies will
need to consistently quantify and keep track of their
sustainability performance (see the data impact cycle

in Figure 6). Having a measurement system in place
could help companies uncover inefficiencies and
identify areas for potential improvement. For example,
after completing the 2006 Carbon Disclosure Project
questionnaire, Walmart found the refrigerants used in
grocery stores accounted for a larger percentage of
the company’s GHG footprint than its truck fleet and
that 92% of emissions in the value chain were outside
the company’s direct control. Such insights helped
Walmart to focus on reducing its refrigerant footprint
and its supply chain GHG emissions.50
The ERM survey found preparers believe that ‘better
performance in meeting sustainability, climate, ESG,
and SDG goals’ is the top benefit of climate-related
disclosures and impact assessments.
A recent academic study of companies’ voluntary
use of the SASB Standards provides empirical
evidence of the benefits of standard-based reporting,
such as improved sustainability performance.51
Specifically, the study found companies that reported
applying the SASB Standards had fewer adverse
sustainability‑related incidents and violations, lower
Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions, lower toxic
releases and fewer work-related injuries after applying
the SASB Standards. Similarly, one study found
mandating mine-safety disclosures in financial reports

48 M.S. Johnson, ‘Regulation by Shaming: Deterrence Effects of Publicizing Violations of Workplace Safety and Health Laws’, American Economic Review, vol. 110, no. 6, 2020.
49	S. Tomar, ‘Greenhouse Gas Disclosure and Emissions Benchmarking’, SMU Cox School of Business Research Paper no. 19–17, European Corporate Governance Institute—Finance Working Paper no. 818/2022, 1 January 2023.
50	N. Topping, ‘How Does Sustainability Disclosure Drive Behavior Change?’, Journal of Applied Corporate Finance, vol. 24, no. 2, 2012.
51	See Bochkay, Choi and Hales, ‘”Mere Puffery” or Credible Disclosure? The Real Effects of Adopting Voluntary ESG Disclosure Standards’.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 52

(as per Section 1503 of the Dodd–Frank legislation)
resulted in fewer mining-related violations and injuries,
and lower labour productivity, consistent with an
increased focus on safety.52 The study concluded
that increased awareness of safety issues is a likely
explanation for the observed real effects.

The ISSB expects that application of
IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 by companies
can lead to changes in operations and
governance that are likely to result
in improvements in sustainability
performance and achievements of
sustainability goals.
Cost of capital
In addition to improved comparability, the objectives
of IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 are to provide investors
with information on sustainability-related risks
and opportunities. The status quo of disclosures
of sustainability-related risks varies depending
on jurisdictional requirements. In reporting
regimes like Case 1 and Case 2, disclosures of
sustainability‑related risks are either missing, reported
jointly with disclosures of other risks (for example,
market risks, economic risks and competitive risks)
or inconsistently reported by companies due to the
voluntary nature of disclosures and application of
various disclosure frameworks and standards.
52	See Christensen et al., ‘The Real Effects of Mandated Information’.

The ISSB believes the global baseline of
sustainability-related financial disclosures
can facilitate investors’ understanding of
risks and opportunities of companies,
depending on the business model,
exposure to climate risks based on
geographical exposure, and supply-chain
complexities and dependencies.
If investors have an improved understanding of the
sustainability-related risks and opportunities of a
company and its peers, it will be easier for them
to predict future cash flows and the uncertainties
associated with future cash flows, leading to lower
risk of owning the company, and, as a result, lower
cost of capital. Some respondents to the IFRS S1
and IFRS S2 exposure drafts stated that applying the
Standards would likely lead to a lower cost of capital
and better functioning of capital markets over time.
The ERM survey examined the expected cost of
capital implications of climate-related disclosures. The
survey found preparers ranked ‘lower cost of capital’
as the least likely benefit of climate-related disclosures
and impact assessments. Although preparer
respondents rated this benefit the lowest on average,
some preparers ranked it highly. The survey also
found companies that spend more on sustainability
disclosures are more likely to recognise higher cost of
capital benefits.

Enhanced integration with other
corporate strategies
Although IFRS Sustainability Disclosure Standards
do not require companies to manage their business
in a particular way, consistent gathering and analysis
of sustainability-related information is likely to raise
awareness and enhance the overall strategic planning
of preparers.
Companies spend substantial resources on
budgeting and setting up long-term goals. Consistent
periodic assessment of sustainability-related risks
and opportunities is likely to enhance companies’
information sets and lead to better strategic planning,
such as use of limited resources, efficiency of
operations, resilience to unexpected risks, innovation,
research and development, and employee retention.
Setting up sustainability-related reporting strategies
and objectives is likely to improve coordination and
cooperation between departments and employees,
leading to improved efficiency and effectiveness in a
company’s operations. Similarly, sustainability reporting
will require increased coordination and cooperation of
companies in the value chain, which is likely to result
in better functioning, increased sustainability focus and
increased transparency of value chains.
The application of IFRS S1 and IFRS S2, especially if
subject to regulatory mandates, is likely to encourage
senior managers and board members to give greater
attention to sustainability issues, helping to improve
governance and oversight of these issues and to
improve performance.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 53

According to the ERM survey, preparers listed ‘better
access to data capable of enhancing corporate
strategy’ as the second-highest benefit of sustainability
reporting, followed by benefits such as ‘increased
ability to attract and retain employees’ and ‘improved
operational performance’. Investor respondents also
ranked these benefits highly in their responses to
the survey.
As part of general purpose financial reporting,
companies produce analyses such as management
commentary on factors that have affected the
company’s performance and financial position, and
factors that could affect the company’s ability to create
value and generate cash flows in the future. These
factors span across the value chain, including the
activities of diverse subsidiaries and dependencies.
Although IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 introduce new
specific disclosures about governance and strategy for
sustainability-related risks and opportunities, they do
not require a radically new approach to the strategic
business model analysis.

The ISSB expects applying IFRS S1 and
IFRS S2 to improve internal decisionmaking processes, aid the governance
and oversight of sustainability-related
risks, and enhance corporate strategic
planning and coordination among
employees, suppliers and customers.

Ability to leverage current protocols,
frameworks and standards
Companies that report sustainability-related
information using current protocols, frameworks
and standards will have the ability to leverage these
materials in selected areas, such as:
• disclosure of governance, strategy and risk
management;
• disclosure of transition plans;
• use of carbon credits;
• reporting of GHG emissions; and
• setting of GHG emission reduction targets.
TCFD Recommendations and SASB Standards
For example, according to a 2022 TCFD report,
about 60% of European companies have used the
TCFD Recommendations to provide disclosures
on governance, strategy, risk management and
climate-related metrics and targets. The TCFD
Recommendations have been used similarly by
companies in other regions, including the Asia–Pacific
region (36%), North America (29%), Latin America
(28%), and Middle East and Africa (25%) (see Table 3).
The reporting rate using TCFD Recommendations
was higher among large companies (>US$12.2 billion
in market capitalisation) at 49%, followed by 37%
for medium-sized companies (US$3.4–12.2 billion
in market capitalisation) and 29% for small listed
companies (<US$3.4 billion in market capitalisation).

Table 3—TCFD Recommendations application
rates
Average percentage of disclosure by
company size
Market capitalisation

Percent

<US$3.4 billion

29%

US$3.4–12.2 billion

37%

>US$12.2 billion

49%

Average percentage of disclosure by region
Region

Percent

Europe

60%

Asia–Pacific region

36%

North America

29%

Latin America

28%

Middle East and Africa

25%

Source: 2022 TCFD Report.

The ISSB’s analysis of the use of the SASB Standards
around the world shows that more than 70% of
companies in the S&P Global 1200 Index, representing
69 markets, had reported sustainability-related
information applying the SASB Standards.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 54

Table 4 outlines the rates of application of the SASB
Standards by company market capitalisation and
by region. Although the highest rates of application
of the SASB Standards, about 32%, were among
large (>US$10 billion in market capitalisation)
and medium‑sized (US$2–10 billion in market
capitalisation) companies, the rate was also
relatively high among small (<US$2 billion in market
capitalisation) companies, at 28%.

About 8% of companies that applied the SASB
Standards for sustainability reporting were privately
held. In terms of SASB Standards applications, 42% of
applications were by US companies, followed by 19%
by companies in the Asia–Pacific region and 12% by
companies in the EU. The Middle East and Africa had
the lowest application rate at about 1%.

The 2023 IFAC-AICPA analysis of global sustainability
disclosures by 1,350 companies in 21 jurisdictions
found application rates of the TCFD Recommendations
and the SASB Standards has increased significantly
over the last few years. Application rates of the TCFD
Recommendations increased from 24% in 2019 to 48%
in 2020 to 63% in 2021. For the SASB Standards, the
application rates increased from 15% in 2019 to 38% in
2020 and to 49% in 2021.

Table 4—Application rates of the SASB Standards by company market capitalisation and by region
(As of March 2023)

Large
cap

Medium
cap

Small
cap

Private
companies

Total

%

United States

433

397

247

85

1,162

42%

Asia–Pacific region

124

176

202

19

521

19%

Europe: EU

136

89

67

29

321

12%

Latin America

30

76

100

42

248

9%

Canada

49

62

73

17

201

7%

Europe: UK

47

52

46

10

155

6%

Europe: non-EU/UK

38

19

31

18

106

4%

Middle East and Africa

11

15

9

1

36

1%

Total

868

886

775

221

2,750

%

32%

32%

28%

8%

%

Source: ISSB’s analysis.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 55

The application rates of the TCFD Recommendations
and the SASB Standards around the world indicate
many companies, especially larger companies and
those operating in developed economies, will not be
starting their IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 reporting from
scratch and will be able to leverage their current
reporting processes and systems to comply with the
Standards. Smaller companies and those operating in
developing economies will face greater challenges in
applying IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 and are expected to
need more guidance than other companies. Disclosure
practices of larger companies may serve as a starting
point to obtain such guidance.
As discussed in Section 3 Overview of IFRS S1 and
IFRS S2:
• IFRS S1 requires a company to use IFRS
Sustainability Disclosure Standards and to consider
the SASB Standards to identify sustainability-related
risks and opportunities to report on.
• for climate-related risks and opportunities
a company uses IFRS S2 to determine the
disclosures to provide. For disclosures about
other sustainability-related risks and opportunities
(including metrics), IFRS S1 points to other sources
of guidance, including a requirement for the
company to consider the SASB Standards.
If the company determines that the other sources of
guidance are not relevant to its operations, it is not
required to use them.

Many respondents to the IFRS S1 and IFRS S2
exposure drafts recognised benefits of the requirement
to consider the SASB Standards. For example,
many respondents said the widespread market use
of the SASB Standards supports the usefulness of
these disclosures and facilitates the forthcoming
transition to IFRS Sustainability Disclosure Standards.
Respondents also highlighted that the ability to
leverage industry-specific metrics in the SASB
Standards will allow companies to provide details
on the unique ways sustainability issues affect their
specific industries.
Other protocols, frameworks and guidance
As well as disclosure practices following the TCFD
Recommendations and/or the SASB Standards, the
GHG Protocol Corporate Standard and the Partnership
for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF) provide
detailed methodologies for companies to determine
their GHG emissions for their value chain and
financed emissions, respectively. Rapidly expanding
support of the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard and
membership in the PCAF show that many companies
and financial institutions are, or will be, measuring and
reporting their GHG emissions and financed emissions
to help their internal and external stakeholders
(including prudential regulators) understand the climate
impact of their business activities. These companies
might face lower costs of implementing IFRS S1 and

IFRS S2 by virtue of already having the necessary
processes and systems in place to prepare such
disclosures.
Similarly, the Science Based Targets initiative
(SBTi) provides companies with methodologies for
determining their emission reduction targets and
pathways, which are relevant to providing disclosures
applying IFRS S2. The Glasgow Financial Alliance for
Net Zero (GFANZ) and UK Transition Plan Taskforce
(TPT) provide guidance on transition plans, and the
Voluntary Carbon Markets Integrity (VCMI) and the
Integrity Council for the Voluntary Carbon Market
(IC-VCM) will provide assurance processes to assess
the quality of carbon credits. These materials are
relevant to disclosures required by IFRS S2 and thus
companies familiar with these materials are expected
to find them helpful in applying IFRS S2.

When preparing their sustainabilityrelated disclosures applying IFRS S1
and IFRS S2, companies will be able
to leverage pre-existing disclosure
practices, protocols and guidelines, and
learn from their peers.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 56

Costs associated with producing
disclosures
The ISSB expects companies will face enhanced initial
investments to prepare the disclosures required by
IFRS S1 and IFRS S2.

The costs are expected to be the highest:
• in the first year of application, and
to gradually decrease over time as
companies learn the necessary steps
to produce sustainability-related
disclosures;
• for larger companies with complex
operations, and for companies with no
prior or minimal sustainability reporting
experience; and
• for companies operating in developing
economies.
The disclosure preparation steps adopted from the
book Win with Advanced Business Analytics: Creating
Business Value from Your Data illustrate the likely
costs associated with the application of IFRS S1 and
IFRS S2:53

1

Identify the objective of sustainability
reporting

This step involves identifying the objectives, outlining
the expected qualitative and quantitative content
of sustainability reports, and determining relevant
measurements.

2

Master the data

This step includes the collection, extraction,
transformation, loading and validation of sustainabilityrelated data (as per IFRS S1) and climate-related data
(as per IFRS S2).

3

Perform a test plan

This step comprises descriptive analyses of collected
data to arrive at accurate measures of sustainability
performance.

4

Address and refine the results

5

Communicate results

This step involves communicating the results
of sustainability performance measurements to
investors. Applying IFRS S1 and IFRS S2, this step
would include:
• discussing the governance processes, controls and
procedures a company used to identify and monitor
sustainability-related risks and opportunities;
• discussing the company’s strategy to address
sustainability-related risks and opportunities;
• discussing how the company identifies, assesses
and manages sustainability-related risks and
opportunities; and
• summarising the quantitative metrics and targets
the company uses to measure and monitor
sustainability-related risks and opportunities.

6

Track outcomes

This step involves the continual tracking and
verification of sustainability-related information.

This step involves addressing identified issues with
collected sustainability-related data and refining the
end measures.

53	The steps are adopted from Isson and Harriott, Win with Advanced Business Analytics.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 57

One-time implementation costs
This six-step sustainability reporting system is likely
to impose substantial one-time implementation costs.
Specifically, companies will likely face one-time costs
relating to:
• finding qualified employees and/or consultants;
• employee education and training;
• setting up new processes and information-gathering
systems;
• the design and implementation of new internal
controls;
• integration into internal controls; and
• integration between new sustainability‑related
data‑collection processes and current
data‑collection processes for general purpose
financial reporting.
Ongoing application costs
Companies will also face ongoing costs associated
with period-to-period sustainability reporting, including
costs relating to:
• data collection, aggregation and application;
• interpretation of information, analysis and
determinations of materiality and which
sustainability-related matters to report on;
• compliance and assurance for reported
sustainability-related information;

• the production, digital tagging and dissemination of
sustainability reports; and
• employee hiring, termination and retention.

It is difficult to provide more detailed
quantitative assessments of preparers’
costs associated with sustainability
reporting because these costs are unique
to individual companies and companies
generally do not publicly disclose how
much they spend on specific steps to
provide disclosures.
To provide evidence on climate-related disclosure
costs from the preparers’ perspective (which is
‘generally private information’), the ERM survey
examined 39 companies representing a range of
industries in the US. These companies represented
more than US$3.8 trillion in combined market
capitalisation, with market capitalisation ranging from
less than US$1 billion to more than US$200 billion
for individual preparers. The companies’ employee
counts ranged from fewer than 1,000 to more than
250,000 employees.

According to this survey, preparers listed costs
associated with GHG analysis and/or disclosures as
the largest, with all preparer respondents reporting
these costs. Costs related to ‘climate scenario analysis
and/or disclosures’ were ranked as the second highest
(about 80% of respondents reported these costs).
Other costs identified in the survey included:
• ‘additional climate-related analysis and/or
disclosures’ (reported by 77% of respondents);
• costs of ‘internal climate risk management controls’
(reported by 69% of respondents);
• costs associated with ‘assurance/audits related to
climate’ (reported by 72% of respondents); and
• costs of ‘proxy responses to climate-related
proposals’ (reported by 49% of respondents).
Feedback from preparers
In their comment letters on the IFRS S1 and IFRS S2
exposure drafts, almost all preparers said the costs
of implementing IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 were likely to
be substantial. Costs of developing and implementing
systems for reporting and internal controls on data
would be new for many preparers. Some respondents
said personnel costs were likely to be substantial
because preparers would have to source the
appropriate talent, many for the first time, to manage
data collection and disclosure. Some respondents said
the costs associated with assurance were likely to be
significant.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 58

Preparers expressed concerns about potentially high
ongoing application costs. Many of these respondents
said costs were likely to decrease over time, as
preparers set up appropriate systems and become
familiar with the disclosure requirements. However,
some respondents argued that costs were unlikely to
decline after first-time implementation, pointing out
that costs, such as those for personnel and assurance,
were likely to remain unchanged and perhaps even
increase over time.
Many respondents mentioned ongoing costs
associated with discrepancies between disclosure
requirements released by the US SEC, EFRAG and
the ISSB. Respondents said these discrepancies
would increase costs to preparers that need to comply
with standards from two or all three of these bodies.
Many respondents said implementation costs were
likely to be lower if the ISSB could facilitate the
interoperability of its proposals with jurisdictional
initiatives, including with proposals being developed
by EFRAG and the US SEC. A few respondents said
they expected costs to be lower for those already using
well-established standards and frameworks, including
the TCFD Recommendations, the SASB Standards
or the GRI Standards. In contrast, many respondents
said the costs would be relatively high for smaller
companies and companies with minimal experience of
preparing sustainability-related financial disclosures.

The ISSB expects the highest
sustainability disclosure costs in
the short term, driven primarily by
one‑time costs to set up data collection
systems and related undertakings.
The ISSB also expects a gradual
reduction in compliance costs over
time as companies gain experience
of applying the Standards and learn
the steps necessary to produce
high‑quality disclosures.

Changes in litigation risk
Application of IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 is expected
to increase the transparency of companies’
sustainability‑related risks and opportunities and
associated actions. Investors are expected to increase
reliance on and scrutiny of sustainability disclosures.
As the result, the risk of regulatory actions and
litigation by investors and other users of information
could increase. Conversely, reporting on sustainability
applying IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 could strengthen
the quality and reliability of disclosures, decreasing
the likelihood of litigation—for example, by ensuring
material information is provided to investors.

The extent of litigation risk depends on many factors,
including a jurisdiction’s sustainability disclosure
enforcement regime, the strength of the legal
system, the company’s actions and the content of the
disclosure itself.
Many respondents to the IFRS S1 and IFRS S2
exposure drafts raised concerns about increased
litigation risk. Some respondents said the nature of
forward-looking statements and information about
likely effects to be disclosed applying IFRS S1 and
IFRS S2 might give rise to liability for misleading and
deceptive disclosures. Some respondents raised
concerns about the inclusion of scenario analysis and
disclosures on Scope 3 GHG emissions, indicating
that companies could be held financially liable for
alleged misstatements on future scenarios, future
global developments, future weather events and
hard-to-estimate measures. Some respondents
raised concerns that identifying specific individuals
responsible for the oversight of sustainability reporting
could expose those individuals to litigation.
The Global Trends in Climate Change Litigation: 2022
Snapshot report underlines the increased litigation
risk for companies.54 The report found there had been
an increase in litigation from stakeholders regarding
omissions, misstatements and obfuscation of reported
sustainability information.

54	J. Setzer and C. Higham, Global Trends in Climate Change Litigation: 2022 Snapshot, London, Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change and the Environment and Centre for Climate Change Economics and Policy,
London School of Economics and Political Science, 2022.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 59

IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 are not unique in
requiring consideration of forward-looking
information and the use of estimates.
Many amounts in financial statements
give rise to similar considerations.
The Standards require information be
provided to enable those using the
information to understand sources of
significant judgement, estimates and
assumptions.

Disclosure and competitive effects
Many respondents to the IFRS S1 and IFRS S2
exposure drafts raised concerns that the disclosure
of opportunities and strategic decisions could lead
companies to disclose commercially sensitive
information that could be exploited by competitors.
According to the cost–benefit analysis of the first set
of draft European Sustainability Reporting Standards
(ESRS) by EFRAG, 72% of preparers indicated some
(likely limited) competitive advantages of applying
the standards and 19% and 9% of preparers said
there would be no effect or an adverse effect on
competitiveness, respectively. Respondents that
indicated the favourable effects of sustainability
disclosure on a company’s competitive position listed
reasons like greater likelihood to win tenders, the ability

to attract new customers and investors, and easier or
cheaper access to financing as potential competitive
advantages of improved sustainability reporting.
The ISSB expects companies to benefit from ensuring
investors understand the opportunities available to
them, particularly to balance information provided
about their risk exposures. As a result, companies
may prefer to provide such disclosure. However, the
ISSB acknowledges the potential harmful effects of
disclosing commercially sensitive information related
to opportunities. In response, the ISSB introduced
an exemption in IFRS S1 that permits a company,
in limited circumstances in which information is not
already publicly available, to omit information about a
sustainability-related opportunity when the information
is commercially sensitive—that is when disclosure
can be expected to prejudice seriously the economic
benefits the company is able to realise in pursuing
the opportunity. The company is required to identify a
specific reason for the non-disclosure of information,
disclose the fact that information has been omitted
for each item omitted, and reassess whether the
information qualifies for exemption from disclosure at
each reporting date.
This exemption is provided in the context of IFRS S1
but, given the overarching nature of the Standard, this
relief will be applicable in other IFRS Sustainability
Disclosure Standards unless otherwise expressly
provided. Therefore, this relief is applicable for
climate‑related opportunities when a company applies
IFRS S2.

Market exit
IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 can be applied by both
public and private companies. Imposition of
sustainability‑related disclosure requirements on only
a portion of a market, or differential requirements
between markets in various jurisdictions, might
generate complex and subtle incentives for how
and where companies raise capital. For example, if
disclosure is imposed on publicly listed companies
only, some companies might wish to avoid the
increased disclosure by listing in another jurisdiction
or delisting entirely. Companies can do so
whenever the costs imposed by the application of
IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 are perceived to outweigh
the benefits. This incentive might vary by industry
and company size, depending on a company’s
assessment of the benefits and costs associated with
additional disclosure.
Countering the incentives to avoid additional disclosure
are the benefits from being a publicly listed company,
such as access to larger, more liquid and lower cost
pools of capital. This access is possible because of the
increased transparency required of listed companies,
including transparency about sustainability-related
risks and opportunities. Such transparency can
increase investor confidence.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 60

In addition to having more limited access to capital,
even if the Standards are not required to be applied
by them, private companies might not entirely avoid
being affected by new disclosure requirements.
Private companies might still be required to disclose
relevant sustainability-related information if they are
part of the value chain of a (larger) company and/or
because they are required to comply with regulatory
requirements aligned with IFRS Sustainability
Disclosure Standards.
Private firms seeking large strategic financing
through private equity firms or other private financing
sources might still be required to disclose relevant
sustainability-related information as part of financing
parties’ due diligence processes. Without adequate
disclosure by private companies when raising capital,
investors in the private market would be faced with
opaque, volatile and uncertain investment risks,
resulting in a smaller and less liquid pool of financing
and a higher cost of capital. Thus, companies will face
competing incentives when faced with new disclosure
requirements for public companies and might respond
differently to that change.

Academic research has documented evidence of
at least some public market exit in response to
regulation. As an example, one study examined
whether the development and implementation of the
Sarbanes‑Oxley Act 2002 (SOX) in the US drove
companies out of the public capital market.55
Although this study found that SOX induced smaller
companies to exit the public capital market, it found
less evidence that SOX resulted in larger companies
going private. Other academics also examined the
effects of SOX on capital markets, concluding that the
regulation imposed costs on companies, but there
were also many benefits, including increased scrutiny
of disclosure by investors.56 A 2021 academic study
found regulatory costs have a greater impact on private
companies’ listing decisions than on public companies’
decisions to go private.57

Companies’ market exit decisions after they have
expanded their sustainability disclosures have not
been well researched. A 2020 study found companies
in the oil, gas and mining sector reduced their
investments in response to mandatory extraction
payment disclosures and reallocated some of the
investments from jurisdictions with required disclosure
to jurisdictions with no such regulation.58 A 2022
study also highlighted that the contribution of private
companies to climate change, the relevance of climate
risks for them, and the practice of public companies
selling their highly polluting assets to private
companies cannot be ignored.59 These studies suggest
that uneven disclosure regulation across jurisdictions
and across public and private companies can distort
capital allocation decisions and the management of
sustainability-related risks and opportunities.

The ISSB acknowledges a possibility
of market shifts due to the burden of
increased sustainability disclosure.
A global consensus on sustainability
reporting policymaking is important.

55	E. Kamar, P. Karaca-Mandic and E. Talley, ‘Going-private Decisions and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002: A Cross-country Analysis’, Journal of Law, Economics, and Organization, vol. 25, no. 1, 2009, pp. 107–133.
56	See for example C. Leuz, ‘Was the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Really This Costly? A Discussion of Evidence from Event Returns and Going-Private Decisions’, Journal of Accounting and Economics, vol. 44, no. 1–2, 2007, pp. 146–165.
57	M. Ewens, K. Xiao and T. Xu, ‘Regulatory Costs of Being Public: Evidence from Bunching Estimation’, NBER Working Paper no. 29143, Cambridge, MA, National Bureau of Economic Research, 2021.
58 T. Rauter, ‘The Effect of Mandatory Extraction Payment Disclosures on Corporate Payment and Investment Policies Abroad’, Journal of Accounting Research, vol. 58, no. 5, 2020, pp. 1075–1116.
59	A. Gözlügöl and W.G. Ringe, ‘Private Companies: The Missing Link on the Path to Net Zero’, European Corporate Governance Institute—Law Working Paper no. 635/2022, Brussels, 2022.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 61

7—Wider market effects

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 62

7—Wider market effects
Effect on the overall functioning of
capital markets
As discussed in earlier sections of this document,
sustainability reporting varies greatly by company
and jurisdiction, and companies can apply many
frameworks, standards and approaches.
This situation can impose excessive costs on:
• companies to prepare sustainability-related
disclosures; and
• investors and other users to collect and interpret the
disclosures.
The lack of useful and reliable sustainability-related
information in the marketplace undermines the ability
of companies and investors to monitor and adequately
manage risks, and to seize opportunities associated
with sustainability matters like climate change.
Applying a set of global sustainability disclosure
standards such as IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 to report
on a company’s sustainability-related risks and
opportunities can help deliver consistent and
comparable disclosures, resulting in better-functioning
capital markets and a stronger global financial system
in general.

For example, the Financial Stability Board (FSB)
and the Network for Greening the Financial System
(NGFS) highlighted the need for disclosures of
financed emissions to assess climate systemic risk
in the banking sector. To date, IFRS S2 is the only
standard that supports these objectives (for example,
through disaggregation by nature of gas and by
industry). Therefore, a wider market effect of the
Standards is the ability of banking supervisors to
assess the climate risks underlying the lending
portfolios of banks, which in turn can affect the cost of
capital of banks and their customers.
It remains difficult for investors and other market
participants to discern meaningful sustainability
reporting because of the quality of disclosure, which
exacerbates the problem of capital misallocation. Global
alignment of sustainability reporting practices would
limit companies’ choices regarding which information
to provide and help deliver consistent and comparable
disclosures.60 This alignment, combined with strong
regulatory oversight, robust corporate governance
and increased public oversight, can lead to greater
management focus on relevant sustainability issues
and more effective actions to address those issues.

As well as providing direct benefits
to capital markets, improved
sustainability reporting can benefit
employees, customers, local
communities in which companies
operate and others. These parties will
be able to understand and monitor
the sustainability‑related risks and
opportunities and the associated actions
of individual companies.

Other effects
The ISSB acknowledges that IFRS Sustainability
Disclosure Standards might influence the development
of similar requirements for specific sectors and has an
ongoing dialogue with other standard-setters.
The International Public Sector Accounting
Standards Board (IPSASB) is working to advance
public sector sustainability reporting.

Although the role of the ISSB is to deliver a global
baseline of sustainability-related disclosures for global
capital markets, this information might also be useful
for other stakeholders.

60	To increase coordination of work programmes and standard-setting activities, the IFRS Foundation and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) signed a Memorandum of Understanding (see Section 3 Overview of IFRS S1
and IFRS S2).

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 63

Appendix A—References

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 64

References
Blankespoor, E., deHaan, E. and Marinovic, I., ‘Disclosure Processing Costs, Investors’ Information Choice, and Equity Market Outcomes: A Review’, Journal of Accounting
and Economics, vol. 70, no. 2–3, 2020, p. 101344.
Bochkay, K., Hales, J. and Serafeim, G., ‘Disclosure Standards and Communication Norms: Evidence of Voluntary Disclosure Standards as a Coordinating Device for
Capital Markets’, Miami, Florida, University of Miami Business School Research Paper no. 3928979, 2021, SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3928979 or http://dx.doi.
org/10.2139/ssrn.3928979.
Bochkay, K., Choi, S. and Hales, J., ‘“Mere Puffery” or Credible Disclosure? The Real Effects of Adopting Voluntary ESG Disclosure Standards’, 2022, SSRN: https://ssrn.
com/abstract=4167391 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4167391.
Bolton, P. and Kacperczyk, M.T., ‘Carbon Disclosure and the Cost of Capital’, 2021, SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3755613 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3755613.
Bolton, P. and Kacperczyk, M.T., ‘Global Pricing of Carbon-Transition Risk’, Journal of Finance, forthcoming, last revised 5 August 2022, SSRN: https://ssrn.com/
abstract=3550233 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3550233.
Bonetti, P., Cho, C.H., and Michelon, G., ‘Environmental Disclosure and the Cost of Capital: Evidence from the Fukushima Nuclear Disaster’, 2018, SSRN: https://ssrn.com/
abstract=2373877 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2373877.
Carbon Disclosure Project, Transparency to Transformation: A Chain Reaction, London, Carbon Disclosure Project, 2021, https://www.cdp.net/en/research/global-reports/
transparency-to-transformation.
Casey, R.J. and Grenier, J.H., ‘Understanding and Contributing to the Enigma of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Assurance in the United States’, Auditing: A Journal
of Practice & Theory, vol. 34, no. 1, 2015, pp. 97–130.
Center for Audit Quality, S&P 500 ESG Reporting, Washington, DC, Center for Audit Quality, 2022, https://www.thecaq.org/sp-500-and-esg-reporting/.
Chalmers, C., Cox, E. and Picard, N., ‘The Economic Realities of ESG’, London, PwC, 2021, https://www.pwc.com/gx/en/services/audit-assurance/corporate-reporting/esginvestor-survey.html.
Chava, S., ‘Environmental Externalities and Cost of Capital’, Management Science, vol. 60, no. 9, 2014, pp. 2223–2247.
Cheng, B., Ioannou, I. and Serafeim, G., ‘Corporate Social Responsibility and Access to Finance’, Strategic Management Journal, vol. 35, no. 1, 2014, pp. 1–23.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 65

Cheng, Q., Lou, Y. and Yang, M. ‘ESG Reporting Divergence’, Asian Bureau of Finance and Economic Research 10th Annual Conference, Singapore Management University, 2023.
Christensen, H.B., et al., ‘The Real Effects of Mandated Information on Social Responsibility in Financial Reports: Evidence from Mine-safety Records’, Journal of
Accounting and Economics, vol. 64, no. 2–3, 2017, pp. 284–304.
Christensen, H.B., Hail, L. and Leuz, C., ‘Mandatory CSR and Sustainability Reporting: Economic Analysis and Literature Review’, Review of Accounting Studies, vol. 26,
no. 3, 2021, pp. 1176–1248.
Christensen, D.M., Serafeim, G. and Sikochi, A., ‘Why is Corporate Virtue in the Eye of the Beholder? The Case of ESG Ratings’, The Accounting Review, vol. 97, no. 1,
2022, pp. 147–175.
Clarkson, P.M. et al., ‘The Relevance of Environmental Disclosures: Are Such Disclosures Incrementally Informative?’, Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, vol. 32,
no. 5, 2013, pp. 410–431.
Dhaliwal, D.S. et al., ‘Voluntary Nonfinancial Disclosure and the Cost of Equity Capital: The Initiation of Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting’, The Accounting Review,
vol. 86, no. 1, 2011, pp. 59–100.
El Ghoul, S. et al., ‘Does Corporate Social Responsibility Affect the Cost of Capital?’, Journal of Banking and Finance, vol. 35, no. 9, 2011, pp. 2388–2406.
ESG Book, The Reporting Exchange—Global Source for Sustainability Reporting [database], London, ESG Book, 2023, https://www.esgbook.com/.
Ewens, M., Xiao, K. and Xu, T., ‘Regulatory Costs of Being Public: Evidence from Bunching Estimation’, NBER Working Paper no. 29143, Cambridge, MA, National Bureau
of Economic Research, 2021, https://www.nber.org/papers/w29143.
Gaur, S. et al. ‘TCFD-aligned Reporting by Major US and European Corporations’, Moody’s Analytics White Paper, New York, Moody’s Analytics, 2022,
https://www.moodysanalytics.com/articles/pa/2022/tcfd_aligned_reporting_by_major_us_and_european_corporations.
Goettsche, M. et al., ‘Materiality Indications as a Double-Edged Sword: Real Effects of Sustainability Disclosure Standards’, 2023, SSRN: https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/
papers.cfm?abstract_id=4324667 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4324667.
Goss, A. and Roberts, G.S., ‘The Impact of Corporate Social Responsibility on the Cost of Bank Loans’, Journal of Banking and Finance, vol. 35, no. 7, 2011, pp. 1794–1810.
Gözlügöl, A. and Ringe, W.G., ‘Private Companies: The Missing Link on the Path to Net Zero’, European Corporate Governance Institute—Law Working Paper no. 635/2022,
Brussels, European Corporate Governance Institute, 2022, SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4065115 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4065115.
International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board, International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised), New York, International Auditing and Assurance
Standards Board, 2013, https://www.ifac.org/_flysystem/azure-private/publications/files/ISAE%203000%20Revised%20-%20for%20IAASB.pdf.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 66

International Federation of Accountants and Association of International Certified Professional Accountants, The State of Play in Sustainability Assurance, New York and
Durham, NC, International Federation of Accountants and Association of International Certified Professional Accountants, 2023, https://www.ifac.org/knowledge-gateway/
contributing-global-economy/discussion/state-play-sustainability-assurance.
Isson, J.P. and Harriott, J., Win with Advanced Business Analytics: Creating Business Value from Your Data, Hoboken, NJ, John Wiley & Sons, 2013.
Johnson, M.S, ‘Regulation by Shaming: Deterrence Effects of Publicizing Violations of Workplace Safety and Health Laws’, American Economic Review, vol. 110, no. 6,
2020, pp. 1866–1904.
Jung, J., Herbohn, K. and Clarkson, P., ‘Carbon Risk, Carbon Risk Awareness and the Cost of Debt Financing’, Journal of Business Ethics, vol. 150, 2018, pp. 1151–1171.
Kamar, E., Karaca-Mandic, P. and Talley, E., ‘Going-private Decisions and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002: A Cross-country Analysis’, Journal of Law, Economics, and
Organization, vol. 25, no. 1, 2009, pp. 107–133.
Kotsantonis, S. and Serafeim, G., ‘Four Things No One Will Tell You About ESG Data’, Journal of Applied Corporate Finance, vol. 31, no. 2, 2019, pp. 50–58.
KPMG, Big Shifts, Small Steps: Survey of Sustainability Reporting 2022, London, KPMG, 2022, https://kpmg.com/xx/en/home/insights/2022/09/survey-of-sustainabilityreporting-2022.html.
Krueger, P. et al. ‘The Effects of Mandatory ESG Disclosure Around the World’, Brussels, European Corporate Governance Institute—Finance Working Paper no. 754/2021,
Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper no. 21-44, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3832745 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3832745, pp. 21–44.
Leuz, C., ‘Was the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Really This Costly? A Discussion of Evidence from Event Returns and Going-Private Decisions’, Journal of Accounting and
Economics, vol. 44, no. 1–2, 2007, pp. 146–165.
Leuz, C. and Wysocki, P.D., ‘The Economics of Disclosure and Financial Reporting Regulation: Evidence and Suggestions for Future Research’, Journal of Accounting
Research, vol. 54, no. 2, 2016, pp. 525–622.
Matsumura, E.M., Prakash, R. and Vera-Munoz, S.C., ‘To Disclose or Not to Disclose Climate-change Risk in Form 10-K: Does Materiality Lie in the Eyes of the Beholder?’,
2017, SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2986290 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2986290.
Plumlee, M. et al., ‘Voluntary Environmental Disclosure Quality and Firm Value: Further Evidence’, Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, vol. 34, no. 4, 2015, pp. 336–361.
PwC, Disclosure Management: Streamlining the Last Mile, London, PwC, 2012, https://www.pwc.com/gx/en/xbrl/pdf/pwc-streamlining-last-mile-report.pdf.
Rauter, T., ‘The Effect of Mandatory Extraction Payment Disclosures on Corporate Payment and Investment Policies Abroad’, Journal of Accounting Research, vol. 58, no. 5,
2020, pp. 1075–1116.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 67

Rouen, E., Sachdeva, K. and Yoon, A., ‘The Evolution of ESG Reports and the Role of Voluntary Standards’, 2022, SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4227934 or
http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4227934.
Setzer, J. and Higham, C., Global Trends in Climate Change Litigation: 2022 Snapshot, London, Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change and the Environment and
Centre for Climate Change Economics and Policy, London School of Economics and Political Science, 2022.
Sindreu, J. and Kent, S., ‘Why It’s So Hard to be an “Ethical” Investor’, The Wall Street Journal, 1 September 2018, https://www.wsj.com/articles/why-its-so-hard-to-be-anethical-investor-1535799601.
Singleton-Green, B., The Effects of Mandatory IFRS Adoption in the EU: A View of Empirical Research, Information for Better Markets, London, Institute of Chartered
Accountants in England and Wales, 2015, SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2515391.
Stellner, C., Klein, C. and Zwergel, B., ‘Corporate Social Responsibility and Eurozone Corporate Bonds: The Moderating Role of Country Sustainability’, Journal of Banking
and Finance, vol. 59, 2015, pp. 538–549.
SustainAbility Institute by ERM, Costs and Benefits of Climate-Related Disclosure Activities by Corporate Issuers and Institutional Investors, https://www.sustainability.com/
thinking/costs-and-benefits-of-climate-related-disclosure-activities-by-corporate-issuers-and-institutional-investors/.
Sustainable Stock Exchanges Initiative, 2023, https://sseinitiative.org/.
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures, 2022 TCFD Status Report, New York and Basel, Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures, 2022,
https://www.fsb.org/2022/10/2022-tcfd-status-report-task-force-on-climate-related-financial-disclosures/.
Tomar, S., ‘Greenhouse Gas Disclosure and Emissions Benchmarking’, SMU Cox School of Business Research Paper no. 19–17, European Corporate Governance
Institute—Finance Working Paper no. 818/2022, 1 January 2023, SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3448904 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3448904.
Topping, N., ‘How Does Sustainability Disclosure Drive Behavior Change?’, Journal of Applied Corporate Finance, vol. 24, no. 2, 2012, pp. 45–48.
Troshani, I. and Rowbottom, M., ‘Digital Corporate Reporting: Research Developments and Implications’, Australian Accounting Review, vol. 31, no. 3, pp. 213–232.
Van der Lugt, C., van de Wijs, P.P. and Petrovics, D., Carrots & Sticks: Sustainability Reporting Policy: Global Trends in Disclosure as the ESG Agenda Goes Mainstream,
Amsterdam and Stellenbosch, Global Reporting Initiative and University of Stellenbosch Business School, 2020, https://www.carrotsandsticks.net/media/zirbzabv/carrotsand-sticks-2020-june2020.pdf.
World Federation of Exchanges, Exchanges Keep Up Efforts to Support a Sustainable Recovery, London, World Federation of Exchanges, 2022, https://www.worldexchanges.org/storage/app/media/WFE%20Annual%20Sustainability%20Survey%202022%20v2%2020221010%20Revised.pdf.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 68

Appendix B—Glossary

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 69

Glossary
This glossary contains short definitions of terms used in this document.
Term

Definition

CDSB

Climate Disclosure Standards Board.

ESG

Environmental, social and governance.

ESRS

European Sustainability Reporting Standards.

GHG emissions

Greenhouse gas emissions. The disclosure is classified as Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 GHG emissions. Scope 1 refers to emissions that
a company makes directly. Scope 2 refers to indirect emissions from the generation of purchased energy consumed by the company. Scope 3
refers to all other indirect emissions that occur in the company’s value chain.

GHG Protocol
Corporate
Standard

The GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard provides requirements for companies preparing a corporate-level GHG
emissions inventory. The standard covers the accounting and reporting of seven greenhouse gases covered by the Kyoto Protocol—carbon
dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PCFs), sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) and
nitrogen trifluoride (NF3). The standard was updated in 2015 with the Scope 2 Guidance, which allows companies to measure and report
emissions from purchased or acquired electricity, steam, heat and cooling.

GRI

Global Reporting Initiative.

Investors

Primary users of general purpose financial reports.

Prospects

Sustainability-related risks and opportunities that could reasonably be expected to affect a company’s prospects refer to sustainability-related
risks and opportunities that could reasonably be expected to affect the company’s cash flows, its access to finance or cost of capital over the
short, medium or long term.

SASB Standards

SASB Standards identify a subset of environmental, social and governance issues most relevant to financial performance in 77 industries.
The SASB Standards have been developed by the SASB and are now maintained by the IFRS Foundation, via the ISSB, which has committed to
building on the industry-based SASB Standards and adopting SASB’s industry-based approach to develop its standards.

TCFD

Task Force on Climate‑related Financial Disclosures. IFRS S2 incorporates the recommendations of the TCFD and IFRS S1 incorporates the
core elements and the framework of TCFD.

WFE

World Federation of Exchanges.
Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 70

Important information
This Effects Analysis accompanies, but is not part of, IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and
IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures.
Other relevant documents
IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information—specifies the requirements for the disclosure of
sustainability‑related financial information.
IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures—specifies the requirements for the disclosure of climate-related financial information.
Basis for Conclusions on IFRS S1—summarises the ISSB’s considerations in developing the requirements in IFRS S1.
Basis for Conclusions on IFRS S2—summarises the ISSB’s considerations in developing the requirements in IFRS S2.
Accompanying Guidance on IFRS S1—illustrates aspects of IFRS S1 but provides no interpretative guidance.
Accompanying Guidance on IFRS S2—illustrates aspects of IFRS S2 but provides no interpretative guidance.
Project Summary of IFRS S1 and IFRS S2—provides an overview of the project to develop IFRS S1 and IFRS S2.
Feedback Statement for IFRS S1 and IFRS S2—summarises feedback on the proposals that preceded IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 and the ISSB’s response.

© IFRS Foundation 2023
Reproduction and use rights are strictly limited to personal non-commercial use, such as corporate disclosure. Any other use, such as – but not limited to – reporting software, investment analysis, data services
and product development is not permitted without written consent. Please contact the Foundation for further details at sustainability_licensing@ifrs.org
All rights reserved.
The Foundation has trade marks registered around the world (Marks) including ‘IAS®,’ ‘IASB®,’ the IASB® logo, ‘IFRIC®, ‘IFRS®, the IFRS® logo, ‘IFRS for SMEs®,’ the IFRS for SMEs® logo, ‘International
Accounting Standards®, ‘International Financial Reporting Standards®,’ the ‘Hexagon Device’, ‘NIIF®,’ ‘SIC®’ and SASB®. Further details of the Foundation’s Marks are available from the Foundation on request.
The IFRS Foundation is a not-for-profit corporation under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, USA and operates in England and Wales as an overseas company (Company number:
FC023235) with its principal office in London.

Effects Analysis | IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures | June 2023

| 71

Columbus Building
7 Westferry Circus
Canary Wharf
London E14 4HD, UK
Tel
Email

+44 (0) 20 7246 6410
sustainability_licensing@ifrs.org

ifrs.org

International Financial Reporting Standards®, IFRS Foundation®,
IFRS®, IAS®, IFRIC®, SIC®, IASB®, ISSBTM, IFRS for SMEs®
Copyright © 2023 IFRS Foundation

